# Life is totally meaningless. We live. We die. So what's the point?

Don't give me any religious reasons as that's just a coping mechanism.

We are simply alive a biological function of reproduction as all biological C
14 creatures exist. Our job is to vision mission and value our lives learn who
am I why am I here and how can I serve these are all imindfulness ideals

Date: 2017-03-04

Keep in mind that, as children, “play” was totally meaningless too. It had no
societal benefit, no ultimate effect. We played, it ended, so what was the
point?

As conscious beings, our reality is to *be conscious*. It does not necessarily
require a higher moral value, or an ultimate destination. If being aware is
all we can truly possess or achieve, then the goal should be to refine our
acute appreciation of what life has to offer, and the nature of things,
however impermanent — maybe even because they’re impermanent.

Why do this, if everything is transient and perishing? Because. I think you’re
brushing up against a meaning of enlightenment here: Being is its own truth,
which the wanderings of mind will never fathom.

# Is truth relative? Does absolute truth exist?

Date: 2017-02-25

Absolute truth does exist, but often when you cast it into terms of human
language and conception, it becomes relative to those assumptions.

For example: Does the sun radiate heat? Absolutely, this is a physical and
verifiable fact. Is the sun hot? Yes, and no. It’s certainly hot to those of
us living on Earth; but it’s downright frigid compared to the temperatures of
the Big Bang.

As the absolute truth you’re seeking gets more and more abstract, it becomes
harder to find an expression of it that is not made relative by the expression
itself. For example, for centuries Sufi mystics have argued whether God is
found in all things, or all things are God. There are compelling religious
foundations for both viewpoints; but since the subject (God) is so abstracted
from human experience, the terminology used to explore the problem means that
even when such statements are relatively true, no one of them is absolutely
so. The absolute truth must be approached in the union of these perspectives.

So if you seek an absolute truth, be very careful of how you phrase it, and
the terms used to describe it. It may remind you of Rumi’s story about the
elephant in the dark:

> Some Hindus have an elephant to show.  
> No one here has ever seen an elephant.  
> They bring it at night to a dark room.
> 
> One by one, we go in the dark and come out  
> saying how we experience the animal.  
> One of us happens to touch the trunk.  
> A water-pipe kind of creature.
> 
> Another, the ear. A strong, always moving  
> back and forth, fan-animal. Another, the leg.  
> I find it still, like a column on a temple.
> 
> Another touches the curve back.  
> A leathery throne. Another, the cleverest,  
> feels the tusk. A rounded sword made of porcelain.  
> He is proud of his description.
> 
> Each of us touches one place  
> and understands the whole in that way.  
> The palm and the fingers feeling in the dark  
> are how the senses explore the reality of the elephant.
> 
> If each of us held a candle there,  
> and if we went in together, we could see it.

# What religion has the answer?

Date: 2017-02-25

They all have the answer: Treat others as you would be treated. Some religions
add “for the sake of God”, and others go so far as to unify your concept of
self with that of “others”, but in the end, it comes down to being the most
humane human being you can be.

# What do you do when someone attacks a religious system?

I’ve seen many people who like to attack religions. This end up generating a
lot of misconceptions, prejudice and hatred between people.

How to maintain peace and unity when someone is often attacking someone’s
religion? (Any religion)

Date: 2017-02-25

If I notice that a person is directly attacking another’s set of beliefs, then
there is nothing to be gained by engaging in argumentation with them — unless
they’re openly and earnestly asking for clarification. Since the disagreement
is about beliefs, and not necessarily logic, things too often degrade into
frustrated emotion.

Perhaps the best response is to learn more about the beliefs of that person,
and why they’re so invested in their position. Since I always have a ton more
to learn about other faiths, I use it as an opportunity to learn from someone
who is deeply set in their point of view. I may not agree, but it offers a
chance to see from another perspective. And it’s important to pay close enough
attention to the basis of their attack, that it even begins to make sense,
were you to accept the foundation of their viewpoint. Once you learn what they
truly care about, you might discover you have more common ground that you
thought.

# I'm majoring in Computer Science but I feel stupid when doing math. Is it a warning sign?

Date: 2017-02-22

I was absolutely the worst at math for the first 40 years of my life, even
though I began programming professionally at age 16, and did no other type of
work since.

Then I was introduced to category theory, and abstract algebra, and it dawned
on me that math is about symbolic relationships, not “number recipes”… that
was when the light bulb went on and I began *loving* math. I still wouldn’t
say I’m very good at it, but now I can read a book on algebraic structures
with pleasure, which is a total change from before.

So you really don’t need math to program. The farthest I ever went was
logarithms in my earlier days; and converting between decimal, octal, binary
and hexadecimal. Some things would have been easier with a maths background
(example: graph theory), but it never stopped me from getting the job done.

# How did we decide that 1 + 1 = 2?

You may be thinking that 1 and 2 are somehow pre-existing entities, and that
we “discovered” they are related by addition, but the real picture is much
simpler: 1 + 1 = 2 because that’s precisely how we’ve defined the meaning of
1, 2 and +.

In the reckoning of numbers, there is zero, and there is “one more than
another number”. Here zero is just a name, and so is “one more”.

0 is the symbol used to denote “zero”.

1 is the symbol used to denote “one more than zero”.

2 is the symbol used to denote “one more than one”, etc.

What is addition? “x + 0 = x”, and “x + one more than y = one more than (x +
y)”.

By that definition, 1 + 1 = 1 + one more than zero = one more than (1 + 0) =
one more than 1 = 2.

The point here is that all of this is “by definition”. It doesn’t have any
meaning beyond these statements, even though the terms can be used to
represent quantities in the real world. *We supply the meaning by how we use
the terms*, but the terms themselves are just relationships defined among
arbitrary symbols.

# If God knows everything, God knows the future. If God knows the future, how can there be free will?

If the future is already known, then it can't be changed, and therefore there
cannot be free will.

And why does God get angry about events when he already knows what is going to
happen?

Date: 2017-02-21

Others have noted that part of the problem with this question is that it
assumes time is linear for everyone, including God.

Imagine you knew everything. Not just everything that is, but everything that
can be: every possible universe that could result from every possible choice.
And you don’t just know one or some of them, but all of them. You know my
whole future if I choose to drink coffee today, and you know my whole future
if I choose not to. After all, if your knowledge is infinite, there’s no
capacity problem. You would know every future, resulting from every choice,
for every person in existence.

This means that God doesn’t need to fore-know what I’ll choose, because it
wouldn’t make a difference; He already knows every divergent outcome: billions
upon billions of possible futures, resulting from every conceivable choice I
might make.

Does it limit my freedom that the future exists? Does it limit my freedom that
God knows all of them?

I think what your original question assumes is that, if God knows which final
future I will choose, it eliminates all the other possibilities from the
beginning. But maybe this isn’t how God’s knowledge of the future works… if
He’s not linear.

I also think this is where fate and free will co-exist. Free will creates the
set of futures we can choose from, while fate limits that set to what God
makes allowable. It’s like a diner at a buffet, who can choice any one of a
hundred foods, but his choice is still limited to those hundred.

So if God decrees that a certain thing must happen in my life, it becomes
fated, and all my futures now contain that thing. But how exactly I get there
would still be up to me, without either affecting His foreknowledge of what
must happen, or my free in how I get there.

# Does true faith mean never giving up your beliefs?

I'm totally open to suggestions!!! please join the discussion, i'd love to
hear any opinions. this is for an english project; the questions were assigned
to us.

Date: 2017-02-21

I think true faith means being willing to give up every one of your beliefs in
the name of truth. Because truth is the truth, and your beliefs are just… your
beliefs. One is absolute and independent, while the other is relative to what
you know, understand and perceive.

This doesn’t necessarily mean that one day you’ll stop believing in God, or
not God, or whatever is most important to you; but your beliefs about it
should change as you progress in life, because beliefs are, after all, mostly
ideas. The thought that one’s beliefs wouldn’t change in the face of new
knowledge and experience isn’t faith, it’s blindness.

Faith is knowing that someone loves you, and is absolutely good, even if they
act in a way that seems 100% the opposite. This is because you have faith in
the person, and so choose to believe that you haven’t fully understood the
situation.

# What is the opposite of zen?

Date: 2017-02-16

If I had to guess what the perfect opposite of Zen is, I’d say: getting
carried away with defining Zen. If Zen represents freedom from the limiting
constraints of conception, and how desire turns those conceptions into a
self-reflective prison, the effort to define Zen would be like exchanging the
very path to freedom for a painting of that path on your cell wall, and then
believing you’d found the way out.

# What is the best comment in source code that you have ever encountered?

Date: 2017-02-09

Once while at Borland I saw a comment in the C++ compiler source that said,
“Fire me if this hack is still around by (such and such a date).” The date was
already five years past by then. The author was still around. It taught me
that the thinking, “We can fix it properly later, let's just get a fix in
now”, is where the real problems begin.

# Why are people obsessed with their phones?

Date: 2017-02-09

Whenever someone includes something in their sense of identity, especially if
it is volatile, and unpredictably may be a source of either sadness or joy, it
will swiftly become as compulsive as a gambler pulling at a slot machine, or
someone who can't wait to hear the latest gossip. It keeps life interesting
and changing, and makes them feel part of something larger than themselves.
People have always had these things in their lives, they just happen to use
phones now because of their extreme versatility and capacity for
interconnection.

Maybe what you really want to know is: Why do people wrap themselves around a
certain focal point, one that is both bad and good, when instead they should
seek what can bring only happiness, love and peace?

# What is the best way to study the Bible, Quran, Sutras, etc.?

Although I am a heretic and do not actively practice any single religion, I am
deeply interested in religious texts as a starting point to understanding
religion and sacred practices as a whole. Any recommendations for other
religious texts are appreciated!

Date: 2017-02-09

Another thing you might find helpful is to read them all at the same time, a
little bit from each, in cycles like this. There's a lot connection, or at
least apparent connection, and this will stimulate your thinking and keep you
from getting weighted down too much by one style or mode of presentation.

# What is it like to feel the holy spirit?

I'm curious to know what its like to feel the holy spirits presence. I've had
no prior experience with it whatsoever.

Date: 2017-02-09

It's hard to know whether a personal experience is really the Holy Spirit, or
just personal imagination, but for me: imagine laying back into a warm bath,
the heat moving into your body as if by fingers of some unseen light, and
suddenly you feel as if you've always known this feeling, womb-like, showing a
path before you whose wonderful mysteries can never cease to unfold. There is
very little that compares to it; even the things that do (on a physical level)
have a sense of shallow fleetingness that does not begin to compare with the…
endless promise of this other thing. It feels like coming home, if home is
where you've always longed to be, even since you were just two cells put
together.

# What are the best philosophy books?

Date: 2017-02-09

I think the best philosophy book to read is whatever speaks to the concerns of
your present thinking. If you've never studied any philosophy at all, it might
be helpful to start with something foundational, like an introductory book on
logic, and something on ontology—since many modern quandaries are bound up in
the question of what it means for a thing to exist.

# Why do some people think that they know everything?

Date: 2017-01-29

A fish in a tiny bowl knows his entire world; he remains unaware of the sea.

# If you make $25 an hour how much is that every month?

Date: 2017-01-29

Quick rule of thumb: Take an hourly rate, double it, then add 3 zeroes. $25 ->
$50,000. That's the salary equivalent of that rate. Divide by 12 to know the
monthly amount: ~$4,100.

# Why don't prayers work?

Date: 2017-01-29

Prayer is a mystery; it's not like withdrawing money from an ATM. Sometimes
it's working when you think it isn’t, and vice versa.

It's better to use prayer as a means to connect your heart with God, and
express yourself to Him, rather than treating it like God’s IT department.

Prayer is like that feeling you get in the midst of a gorgeous moment when you
say to yourself, “I wish this would never end.” The fact that it does end is
part of what made it special; it's not a failure of the wish.

# Which are Christians supposed to do? Pray for things to go the way they want it to or accept whatever happens as the work of God?

I know Christians are supposed to God about everything. But then again, is it
wrong to just sort of ‘go with the flow’ and trust that everything that
happens is the will of God. Because if truly all things that happen are with
the consent of God and He cares about us, why exactly are we praying then

Date: 2017-01-29

Pray for what you want to happen, accept what does happen.

If you had (or have) a child, you wouldn’t want them to keep their desires
secret from you, but you'd also want them to be happy with what's available,
or what's best for them.

# What is the future of tolerant, unified and global religions like the Bahá'í Faith?

"The independent search after truth, unfettered by superstition or tradition;
the oneness of the entire human race, the pivotal principle and fundamental
doctrine of the Faith; the basic unity of all religions; the condemnation of
all forms of prejudice, whethe... (more)

Date: 2017-01-22

There will be a new civilization, unlike anything seen before, something we
cannot as yet imagine.

Consider the Christian world 170 years after Christ’s crucifixion. To the eyes
of a skeptic, that blessed Soul had almost no impact on His generation, except
for a small few. He left no book of laws, won no battles, acquired no wealth
or power. It would have been easy to think, then, that He and His few
followers would soon vanish and be forgotten to time.

But the power of God is exactly this: from a tiny acorn, the mighty oak is
born. It’s hard to assess the future strength and vitality of this tree,
looking at the young sapling or juvenile tree, but it is destined to grow into
a mighty, sky-embracing thing.

If the Bahá’í Faith were not a divine Cause, I would expect it become a
historical curiosity, like so many such things have done in the past; but if
it be from God, then the future is glorious.

# Did Mohammed actually made up false verses in Quran?

In Quran Surah Al-Haqqah[69:44] And if Muhammad had made up about Us some
sayings …Then We would have cut from him the aorta

Shockingly in Hadit Sahih Al-Bukhari and Sunan Abi Dawud mohammed himself
claimed that his aorta was cut-off Sayings and Teachings of Prophet Muhammad
(صلى الله عليه و سلم)

Date: 2017-01-22

I’m not sure whether you’re asking if this verse somehow implies Muhammad did
make up false verses; or if you’re wondering “did He do this”, and the
punishment was never enacted?

In my Study Qur’án, the translation of this verse and the following is: “Had
he ascribed any statements to Us, We would have taken him by the right hand.
Then We would have severed his life vein. And none among you could have
shielded him from it.”

This verse immediately follows an assertion that the Muhammad is “a noble
messenger”, and so emphatically states that if it were not so, God would not
have given Him power to reveal the Qur’án, and in fact would have taken His
life for attempting it.

# Is the Kitab-i-Aqdas actually a “Holy Book”?

Date: 2017-01-17

“Holy Book” usually refers to any text that has a divine origin, rather than
human imagination or research. That is, the source is outside human
experience.

This means that to answer your question, I’d have to ask whether you believe
that Bahá’u’lláh received His inspiration from God. If not, then “holy” is
just a word; if so, everything He revealed was holy.

That Bahá’u’lláh termed it His “Most Holy” book is interesting, perhaps
because it is intended to serve as the charter for a new social order, and a
foundation for the future of civilization.

# What does Quran really say that inspires Jihad against other religions?

Date: 2016-12-19

There are in fact other verses like 3:20:

    And say to those who were given the Book and to the unlettered ones, “Do
    you submit?” Then if they submit, they will be rightly guided, but if they
    turn away, then thine is only to convey.

And 2:190:

    And fight in the way of God against those who fight against you, but do
    not transgress. Truly God loves not the transgressors.

From what I’ve read in the Qur’án so far, I do see a prescription to retaliate
against those who oppress the community, but I have not found any edict
allowing open attack against those who do not believe in Islám.

# Are Baha'is supposed to learn Arabic?

Date: 2016-12-12

No, there is no requirement to learn Arabic, or any other language. At some
point in the future, the world will choose an international auxiliary
language, to be taught in the schools; whether that will be Arabic or not,
time will tell. But until then, there is no law, or duty, or even exhortation,
upon Bahá’ís to learn anything other than their mother tongue.

# Did the prophet of the Bahai faith, Bahaullah perform miracles?

Date: 2016-11-30

Bahá’ís tend not to focus on miracles, since these are a proof for
eyewitnesses only — and even then might be mistaken as mere sorcery. The true
miracle is His Revelation, and the benefits it offers to humanity.

So, if you are asking this question in comparison to the life of Christ, I’m
unaware of any record of Bahá’u’lláh performing similar miracles. There is one
case where He offered to perform a miracle if challenged by the religious
leaders, but they declined the invitation.

# How can I improve at discerning bullshit from the truth?

Date: 2016-11-30

If the truth in question is only words, be wary.

If someone tells you the stove is hot, and then it burns you, you’ve found a
truth.

Every truth should be put to test: what effect does it have, what are its
fruits? If it has no test, then how is knowing it different from not knowing
it?

# I don't accept fact and believe only what I believe and don't take people's advice. How can I change that?

It is my second time being told seriously by a friend that I don't take
people’s advice and I think only the way I want to think. I start to think
that I might be a really stubborn person and I don't see it. How can I change
that? What advice do you have for me?

Date: 2016-11-30

If you’re stuck in thinking that you’re always right, maybe one way to
approach it is to ask why: Are you afraid of being wrong? Of others thinking
you’re wrong? Of what might happen if you were wrong?

There are wonderful things in life you’ve never heard of yet, or even
imagined. A big part of living is discovering new truths that you have no
beliefs about yet, exactly because they’re outside your present experience.

When you realize that always being right is like trapping yourself inside a
very small box, maybe you’ll want to escape from it.

# Can God build a wall he cannot break?

Date: 2016-11-30

This question rests on a false premise: It assumes there exists something —
the building materials for a wall — that is outside of God’s own existence.
That is, God is here, and the bricks are over there, and you’re asking if God,
who has no physical dimensions and is unlimited, can then impose upon himself
both dimensions and limits.

It would be quicker to ask, “Can God be something other than God?” This is
only a little different from stating Russell’s paradox, “Is there a set of all
sets that do not contain themselves?” Rather than saying something meaningful
about such sets, what this paradox reveals is that such a question is simply
not logical.

# When do you begin to doubt your beliefs in God?

Date: 2016-11-30

I think one should always doubt their belief in God, because what is belief
made from? Finite conceptions of an infinite truth are always wrong to some
degree.

For example, say you had a picture of a beautiful painting, like Van Gogh’s
*Starry Night*. Now focus in on a single atom within the painting, so that one
atom is all you see, and all you’ve ever seen. What do you think about the
painting then? Whatever you think, however true it might be for an individual
atom, it’s not true for the painting as a whole.

Zoom out until you can see a few molecules: still the case; zoom out to a drop
of the paint: still the case; zoom out until you can see one star: still the
case. Etc.

As it happens, in this analogy, there’s a point at which we’ve zoomed out
enough to see the whole painting, and then it makes sense. But what if the
subject of our attention is *infinite*, and there's no such thing as zooming
out far enough? Then, no matter how true our thoughts might be about the small
part we know, it is not the truth of the whole.

Therefore, doubt your beliefs about God every second of every day. They are
like clothes: put them on in the morning, take them off at night, and change
them the next day. As long as your mind keeps growing, your ideas should keep
changing, as more and more of the picture comes into view.

Note: I do think this is a separate question from belief in a moral code, or
the teachings of a Prophet, since those two are local to our experience, and
relative to the world in which we live. I’m more talking about our beliefs in
the Divine Entity behind it all, about Whom shall always know next to nothing.

# What had caused you to join The Baha'i Faith?

Date: 2016-11-29

Originally I joined because I enjoyed the way my new-found friend answered
scientific and philosophical questions. He clearly wasn’t the type of person
whose mind was “turned off”. I told my mother about it, and she said, “Find
out what the people are like first.”

Well, there’s no better way to learn the truth of people a than full
immersion, so I joined the Faith, knowing full well that I could back out any
time. Needless to say, that was 26 years ago…

# Is there a human made sound or word that cannot be written? What is it?

Excluding onomatopoeia.

Date: 2016-11-29

A sneeze or a hiccup is pretty much impossible to write in a way that truly
captures the nature of the sound. You can write “achew”, but it lacks the
drawing in of breath, the suddenness, the explosive quality. The only reason
it works in print is because we already have some idea of what it means, but
the reality is that many people have unique sneezes, and none are captured by
a generic word.

# What does Psalm 82 : 6 mean?

Date: 2016-11-28

It is interesting to read Psalms 82:6 in conjunction with John 10:31–39:

> Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, Many
> good works have I shewed you from my Father; for which of those works do ye
> stone me? The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not;
> but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.
> Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? If
> he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture
> cannot be broken; Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent
> into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God? If I
> do not the works of my Father, believe me not. But if I do, though ye
> believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the
> Father is in me, and I in him.

And Genesis 1:27:

> So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him…

One way to read this is that when we accept Christ, God manifests His Spirit
through us in our character and actions. It is like a mirror: If it is
cleansed of dust and dross, it faithfully reflects the light of the Sun cast
upon it. At that time, the mirror and the Sun are alike in brilliance and
effect; but if the mirror is clouded over, or hidden away, it becomes no
better than plain glass.

So, we are all potential “gods”, not in the sense of being partners with God,
but by our ability to manifest His qualities through our faith in His
Messenger. In this way, Christ manifests His Spirit through us, and we become
like his body. 1 Corinthians 12:27:

> Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.

# If the word of God cannot be corrupted, according to the Qur'an, why did the Bible and Qur'an come to replace an earlier version of God's word?

Did these books need to alter what had been previously said because it didn't
apply anymore?

Date: 2016-11-28

In Bahá’í scripture it relates that the sun that rises and sets is every day a
new sun, yet always the old sun.

Religion advances as humankind advances, and every thousand years or so there
is another Messenger to further our spiritual development as a species.
Although each Faith has believed its Message to be the last, yet another
always comes, because humankind continues to evolve.

# In the Quran, how can the word massacre surah 33, verse 61 be justified?

Date: 2016-11-28

“Massacre” is a bit misleading, since it implies large groups of people being
put to the slaughter.

The preceding verse calls out the hypocrits: Those who say they believe, then
do not believe, then say they believe again, etc.: people who stir up
mischief, and maliciously create doubt in other’s hearts, and desire to create
disorder. *If they persist*, they are to be routed out of the city, and if
they are still discovered acting treacherously, put to death. The Arabic is
“quttilú taqtilana", which might be translated as “put to death without
mercy”.

On a spiritual level, one meaning is that those who actively seek to disrupt
the foundation of God’s faith, will find their lives and efforts extinguished
in the end.

# What is the point of using digital signatures with GNU Privacy Guard?

gpg —verify will use the sender’s public key to decode the signature, and
compare it to the message digest generated by the file. A third user could
easily intercept and modify the file, generate his own public-private keys,
sign the modified file with a false name, and thereby fool gpg —verify.

Date: 2016-11-27

The message digest was created using the sender’s private key. If your
interloper changed both the message AND the digest, to one he had made with
his own private key, he’d have to also convince you that his public key was a
replacement for the sender’s public key that you already had. That would only
work if you’d never downloaded the sender’s public key before, and the
attacker was somehow able to trick you into downloading their spoofed version
of the public key instead. Then, yes, they could do what you suggest.

However, for a sender you know, such an attack is impossible. You already have
their public key, and it’s cryptographically impossible (meaning, likely
totally possible in a few decades) for the attacker to generate a false
message digest. Only the true sender’s private key can make digests that will
verify against their known public key.

# In the Bible, who ate locusts and wild honey? Why?

Date: 2016-11-27

It was John the Baptists, as stated in Matthew 3:4. I imagine that since John
lived by himself in the desert, these were the foods he had access to. It also
shows that he was dependent on nothing, and no one, except what God provided.

# Why would an omnipotent need our prayers, reverence and undying gratitude?

Date: 2016-11-27

A flower opens its petals and prays to the sun, not because the sun needs it.

The sere grass is grateful for a falling rain, not because the clouds need it.

If we understood the nature of our soul’s relationship to God, prayer,
reverence and gratitude would never feel forced upon us. They are the natural
order of things, once one takes into account the spiritual world. Perhaps they
are required of us at the beginning so we can derive some benefit from them,
before having understood.

# What are some proofs that deny the presence of a deity?

Date: 2016-11-27

Every method of “proof” available to us is a human-devised system, based on
formulations of logic we are able to comprehend. It might surprise you to know
that many such systems exist: for example, constructive logic (where proof is
given by a truth witness), and classical logic (where proof may depend on
axioms we hold always to be true).

If proof is a system of human construction, it can only establish proof for
questions posable within that system. That is, it can only answer questions
within its own sphere. The reason we can prove “1 + 2 = 2 + 1” is because we
know the definition of “+” and the meaning of the symbols “1” and “2”. Without
that knowledge — if “+” is left undefined, for example — it becomes
unprovable.

Therefore, since any deity is, by definition, beyond human understanding, any
proof system we devise cannot apply to it, either positively or negatively. We
just can’t know, exactly because we don’t know.

I think Wittgenstein stated it quite succinctly when he wrote: “The limits of
my language means the limits of my world.”

# If I have a gun and I am about to shoot you, how can you convince me that it is morally or ethically wrong to do so without using God or the Bible?

Date: 2016-11-27

That could only be done if we shared an ethical system to which you had a
greater commitment than your desire to kill me.

Even then — even if we shared a moral code and it was clearly not right for
you to shoot — no moral commitment can override the prerogative of free will.
You will always be free to take that shot, so long as you’re willing to endure
the consequences.

So, I cannot force you to do anything, by any argument, unless you want to be
forced.

Now, the fact you’re even pondering this question lets me know you have some
compunction about killing me, so maybe I could argue that, by letting me live,
we could spend more time debating the issue. :)

# What are beliefs of the Ahmadiyyah Muslim sect? What makes Ahmadiyyah Muslim sect different from the other Imam Mehdi based religions like Bahaism?

Date: 2016-11-26

The Bahá’í Faith is not a sect of Islám, but an independent world religion,
with its own Writings, Book of Laws, and institutions. It believes the Imám
Mihdí appeared in the person of the Báb, Who then foretold that One greater
than Himself would appear, Bahá’u’lláh.

Bahá’u’lláh makes the claim of speaking with the voice of God, as it was
spoken to Moses from the Burning Bush. He does not claim to be the incarnate
essence of God, and disputes the possibility of such a claim in His Writings.

# When and why did Manna stop falling from heaven according to the Bible and the Qur'an?

Date: 2016-11-26

One interpretation of “the manna from heaven” is the Divine Spirit released
through the Revelation of God, and that whoever turns to that Revelation will
eat of that food. In this sense, it has never stopped, it is just not an
obvious thing, as the literal interpretation would suggest.

# How does someone with a genius IQ conceive of God?

Date: 2016-11-25

Genius is not a well defined term, and the range of IQs it has been applied to
is large. For some definitions I fit within that range, for others I do not.
That said, I am believer in God, despite having this intelligence.

If you ask me how I conceive of God: I don’t. “God” is at best a symbol used
by humans to refer to a Reality we can never hope to understand — not to any
extent. We don’t even know how our own minds work, so it’s ludicrous to think
we could fathom the Creator of that mind: or love, or the human soul. I barely
understand why I prefer blueberries to raspberries; how I claim to know God?

What I believe in is those Divine Messengers who claim to have brought us
knowledge from God. Why I believe this is personal, and a different question
altogether. Yet even when these Individuals tell me that God exists and has a
plan for us, I still don’t know Who that God is, or the nature of His Essence.

That said, an infant doesn’t need to comprehend its mother to know her love,
or feed from her milk, nor does it need an accurate conception of her to have
a strong and lasting relationship.

# What is a good strategy to memorize Quran?

Date: 2016-11-25

One thing you can do when memorizing long texts like the Qur’án is to memorize
a structure along with the text — the “spine”, if you will. For example, in
the Surah of the Cow there are several sections, each dealing with a certain
theme. In addition to memorizing the verses, you’d also memorize the sequence
and flow of these sections, perhaps using keywords to remind you of their
content.

This way, when you think of the Surah, you also call to mind a series of words
summarizing the whole structure of the Surah. Each one of these sections
becomes something that you memorize in full. So you’re not memorizing one long
book, but many brief passages, all connected together by the story they tell.

This same principle applies to the book as a whole: Group the Surahs together,
and create mnemonics to help you memorize the members in each group. Then, if
you want to recall a specific set of verses, just traverse the structure in
your mind: It’s from Surah group X, in Surah Y, in section Z, beginning with
word W. By the time you finish memorizing the whole Qur’án, you’ll have a
concordance in your mind to help you locate any subject, or to begin reciting
from any point.

Please note that I haven’t memorized the Qur’án, but I’ve memorized other long
texts, and this method worked very well for me.

# Is the Bible or the Quran the word of God and why?

There are over 2 billion Christians in the world. Furthermore, there are over
1 billion Muslims in the world. However, Christianity and Islam (i.e.,
Bible/Quran) are contradictory religions. If one of the two is the word of
God, which is the word of God and why?

Date: 2016-11-25

What if both are the Word of God, and what seems to contradict are people’s
interpretations of the two, especially due to literal readings?

Nearly every world Faith was rejected by its forebears for not literally
fulfilling prophecy, so you would think allegorical readings would become more
popular over time — but they have not. I think the interesting question is:
How can both books be read so they are seen as referring to a common truth?

# What proof that the quran is the word of God or is it just the best mythological or fiction book ever written?

Date: 2016-11-25

It’s hard to give a “proof” of the Qur’án, in the sense of convincing others
instantly and utterly, but there are a few facts to consider:

- Muhammad was illiterate, and is reported to have uttered the chapters of the
  Qur’án on the spot, noted down by those around him. If you look at the
  language and complexity of the Qur’án, and how hard it is even for learned
  individuals to mimic its richness and style, that’s pretty amazing by
  itself.

- Although the Qur’án is relatively short, it became the basis for a
  civilization that was more successful than the Roman Empire, covered a
  greater territory, and was reknowned over the centuries for its art, science
  and philosophy. How can such a small book, spoken aloud by an unlettered man
  of Arabia during the 7th century, be so rich and complex that it still
  serves as a guide for millions today?

- The Qur’án makes an explicit challenge that if it is not from God, simply
  imitate it: Write something of equal beauty and power, if you think it’s
  just the ravings of a poet from the Arabian desert. Although this challenge
  was given over 1300 years ago, it has nonetheless withstood the test of
  time.

- If you survey the state of the Arabian Peninsula when Muhammad was born, it
  is shocking to think it could have ever been united by anyone, so afflicted
  was it by internecine conflicts, prejudices, and barbaric traditions.
  Compare the result of the Qur’án’s influence on that region, with the
  conditions it appeared in, and it becomes very hard to reckon it a mere book
  of poetry. Many men, over millenia, have tried to fashion ideal societies
  under far more favorable conditions — we still don’t have a living example
  of Plato’s Republic. Yet the Islamic nations, at their peak, were as a light
  to the world.

# What are philosophy courses good for?

Date: 2016-11-25

While most other courses will teach you how to think about a particular
subject, philosophy is unique in that it questions the process of thinking
itself: By what logic do we arrive at answers? What is the foundation of
answers, and the meaning of questions? How is it that we “know” something?
What does it mean to “exist”, and what is the foundation of meaning itself?

Without examining these things you can be quite successful in life, but you’ll
always be operating on a base of assumptions about life and thought that will
limit how far you can go in your understanding of it. If this means nothing to
you, you probably don’t need any philosophy; but if you’d like to discover
more from life than just eating, sleeping and death, then it’s all the things
we hold to be true, automatically and for granted, that demand our intense
scrutiny.

# How does the Ka'aba represent the eternity of Allah?

Often times when you ask a shaykh to guide you on increasing concentration in
Salah, you are advised to “direct your attention to the majesty of the Ka’baa,
which is the symbol of God’s eternity”. What does this mean and how does the
Ka’aba signify God’s eternity?

Date: 2016-11-25

“God’s eternity”, in the Arabic, is often stated as “baqá”. It is discovered
upon completing self-annihilation, faná. These two relate to the opposite
poles of the mystic’s journey: God (Alláh) and self (nafs). Once the nafs is
consumed in the fire of love and becomes nothing (faná), then the lover enters
the heaven of eternity in God (baqá).

These mystic states have many outward symbols. The meaning of baqá is
represented as the Object of Adoration, the Divine Ka`bih. It does not refer
to the building, but its essential meaning as the cynosure of all hopes and
desires.

Viewed this way, the Ka`bih comes to signify many things. For example, the
letters of the Qur’án may be compared to the believers, and the true, inner
meaning, as the Ka`bih of recognition. Only when the role of the letters is
subsumed in the purpose of the message is the meaning faithfully conveyed.

For more, you might enjoy: Quranic Meditation on Fana and Baqa Signs | Friday
Qur'an Reading

# If God is all good, why should you fear him?

As a "God fearing" Christian.

If God is all merciful and loving and had sent his son Jesus for the
forgiveness of our sins, aren't we all forgiven and should we not have to
worry about damnation, or is this some illusion?

Date: 2016-11-23

An astronaut may love space, down to his very core, but never, ever be willing
to take off his helmet in space.

Love God, love Him with all your heart, but hold to His law as if your
survival depended on it.

# What is fifth element in Islamic sufism other than water, wind, fire and earth?

Date: 2016-11-23

Like the Greeks, who believed in a “quintessence”, or original and fifth state
of matter, Sufis believe in a similar concept, *al-jawhar al-hayulani*, the
essence of creation. It is also referred in some places as the Divine Elixir,
as mentioned in the Qur’án. This is the potential reality from which all forms
appear, such as the four states of matter.

Beyond this, you’ll have to ask a more specific question. Farídu’d-Dín `Attár
and other Sufis have written about al-jawhar al-hayulani; you can Google for
this term and find several references. These ideas also connect with medieval
alchemy, the philosophy of Hermes Trismegistus, and more; it is also spoken of
in the Bahá’í Writings.

# I understand what a monad is. Why do we need monads in Haskell? Why is it so useful and important?

Date: 2016-11-23

Let’s say you want to represented a stateful computation, in a pure language
without effects. You might do this by writing a function that takes an input
state, and computes a result along with an output state. This way you can feed
the output state back into the same function, and “continue” as if you were
changing state across invocations.

This is fine and well, and can be done in any language, even math. Where you
run into problems is in managing all that state passing. Once several
functions are involved, it gets tricky to thread the state properly through
all of them. What if you reuse the wrong state? What if you forget to pass the
new state?

Wouldn’t it be nice if you could abstract away the passing of state, and focus
just on the underlying functions: if you had a way to make “state passing”
part of the *meaning of composition*, so you could compose stateful functions
just as you might compose ordinary functions, and all the state passing would
happen, correctly, behind the scenes.

This sort of abstraction is captured by the concept of “monad”. It’s useful
for many other things besides, but this is pretty a common way you’ll
encounter it.

Lastly, if you think of “effects on the environment” as a flavor of state, it
gives you a way to think about I/O as building up a set of instructions to be
acted on by an external runtime. This doesn’t convey the entire picture of
what Haskell does (for example, it doesn’t explain asynchronous exceptions at
all), but it’s not completely untrue either.

# How did you feel when you first scratched your new car and how did you deal with the depression?

Date: 2016-11-22

There have been times when I scratched the thing I loved most by myself, just
to face the craziness head on.

I completely sympathize with what you’re feeling: You get that new thing —
something which embodies whatever ideals you long for at the moment:
sleekness, speed, utility, freedom from the doldrums of life — and reality
jumps up and smacks your ideal right across the face, leaving a mark that
can’t be fixed, that stares you in the face, mockingly, with eyes of fire
every time you look at it. It makes you want to throw the thing away and start
over.

In a way, we taste a little bit of death in these moments: the death of some
fleeting thing that we thought we had, for a moment, captured in our new
vehicle, or TV, or computer. For one brief instant, we’d reached into the
world of perfect forms, and come away with a vision of beauty so wondrous, so
smooth…

It’s funny that we, creatures of an impermanent and ever-changing world, find
such joy in these moments. Almost as if we weren’t born for this, and all
these terrible experiences and sudden depressions were specifically intended
to hone our appreciation for such things, while at the same time learning to
let them free.

# Can anyone justifiably claim to be an expert on God?

Date: 2016-11-19

Let's say you want to become an expert on the sun. What would that mean? That
you know its temperature, its cycles, its various wavelengths. But you still
only know the sun from a great distance.

So you build a ship and go to the sun. to survive the trip, you'd need to
filter the sun’s light down to human levels, and redirect away most of the
heat, and you'd have very few instruments that could function under so much
radiation and magnetism.

In the end, the best you can do is become an expert at observing the sun, and
then only from the confines of a human level of perception. As close as it may
be, the truth of the sun, its own sphere of being, is inaccessible to
creatures like us.

Multiply this by infinity and you’ll have some notion of the problem.

# Is a sufficiently advanced strong AI indistinguishable from the definition of God as an omnipresent, omniscient, and omnipotent entity?

If so, couldn’t God and strong AI be one and the same thing?

Also, could God be a memory, passed down through the generations, of an
encounter with such a strong AI at some point in the past?

Date: 2016-11-19

Even the strongest AI is limited to what can be encoded in binary impulses.
That is, assuming we are talking about conventional, computer-based AI, and
not some transcendent form no longer recognizable as what we currently call
AI.

Meanwhile, it is believed that God exists beyond all duality, beyond even
unity (being that He created both of these), so this places AI squarely in the
realm of the created, not the Creator.

Put another way: even if AI became a perfect player in the game of life, God
could change the game.

# What is it that God desires the most of us?

Date: 2016-11-18

Your life is a gift. Open it. Learn who you are, who you were made to be, the
fullness of your potential. The Prophets came to guide us in these things, so
I would that what God desires is for us to fully be.

# Why did God send the prophets to the world?

Date: 2016-11-20

If God is All-Powerful, He doesn't need a Prophet to make Himself known to
mankind. This implies that either He doesn't exist, or He doesn't want people
to know Him in such an easy, automatic way. Perhaps there is value in free
will, and the freedom to arrive at a knowledge of God through choice and
determined effort. Perhaps that journey is part of what knowing God means.

Imagine there were a powerful king, loved by all his subjects, who wanted to
choose companions for his court. He wouldn't open his doors wide, because
everyone would rush in. Instead, he sends out counselors to meet the people,
learn their character, test them. This is how he might find those true of
heart, loyal, who love him for who he is and not what he can do for them.

# Can you give some exampes of Applicative Functors which are not Monads?

Date: 2016-11-16

A rather important one is Const. Figuring out which monad law is breaks, and
why, is a fun exercise.

# I have $50,000 saved up and I am making $130,000 a year. Should I drop out of college?

I am a freshman going to a bad school for CS for the sake of cost. The classes
are boring, but are easy enough to let me work at full-time hours with high
pay. I have multiple offers to drop out (~$130,000). If I wait until graduate,
I can get $190,000 a year (I interned). Should I dropout?

Date: 2016-11-16

College is a special time, good for more than just earning — and there will be
many, many years of earning yet to come. Don’t drop out. I say this as someone
who didn’t finish college, and it’s one of the decisions I’d undo if I could
go back in time. Make the most of your college experience. The day will come
when you want it back, but by then it’ll be too late.

# What do 50-year-olds know that 20-year-olds often don't?

Date: 2016-11-14

Time allows us to look at a thing, and more and more with each passing year,
see the things that it is not.

A 20 year old watches the news, and he hears what’s being said; a 50 year old
can watch the news, and hear the absence of the totalitarian regime that would
be shutting down, had history been different.

# How can you determine how spiritual a person is?

Date: 2016-11-14

Look at how they treat others. Do they complain about life, or appreciate what
they have? Do they have time for you when you need it? What is most important
to them? How do they react to things happening in the world? How do they
respond to the boring, ordinary moments that life is full of, not just when
things are exciting and eventful. If you look closely, you may find
spirituality in places you’d never expect to find it.

# Can Agda perform computations? How?

For instance, once I’ve defined a finite set, can I construct an arbitrary
set, say, {2,4,8}, and extract an arbitrary element from it, say 8?

Date: 2016-11-11

Pure computations like this are done simply by writing functions and
evaluating calls to them. Use `C-c C-n` (if you’re using agda-mode) to
normalize a term, such as `1 + 2`.

# Can Agda make me a better Haskell programmer?

Date: 2016-11-11 · Upvoted by Tikhon Jelvis

This very much depends on what kind of Haskell programmer you want to become.
One of the benefits of Agda is that it’s much harder, and so it will
necessarily make Haskell seem easier once you’ve played with it for a while.

However, knowing Agda will not teach you more about Haskell libraries (except,
maybe, the the theory behind them), nor give you deep experience with the
operational semantics of Haskell, such as laziness, exception handling,
performance tuning, lazy I/O, etc.

# In a world of free will and choice is there any real way that a divine plan can exist?

Date: 2016-11-11

If God creates possibility, and we freely choose from among these
possibilities, then nothing we choose can produce an outcome that was not
fore-ordained as possible.

I think we make this question difficult for ourselves, because we contrast
absolute freedom (the ability to do anything whatsoever), with absolute
determinism (God must decide every little thing, down to how each atom
vibrates). Between these two positions is a framework where both co-exist.

# What should everyone know about the Bahá'í Faith?

Date: 2016-11-11 · Upvoted by Tikhon Jelvis

What I think everyone should know is that the Bahá’í Faith believes every
human being to be an infinitely beautiful light, albeit trapped within a
lantern of iron: the obscuring dross of self and material desires. If this
light became generally known and appreciated, the character of our planet
would change in ways we cannot dream of. Forget ending wars and establishing
world peace: when all people, everywhere, begin working together to explore
reality and discover the mysteries of existence, can you imagine what that
will be like? We are like thoroughbred race horses, blinded, hobbled and
weighed down by ignorance, prejudice and a litany of injustices committed by
our fathers for which we seek vengeance against every new generation.

The Bahá’í Faith is a liberation from present notions of humanity, toward
something almost too beautiful to contemplate. We are wondrous beings,
illumined souls, children of God. Our potential cannot be measured. This
includes each one of us on these forums, in every country, from every group.
All that awaits is for us to collectively awaken to our reality, and apply the
Teachings we’ve been given to unlock these latent treasures.

    O Son of Being! With the hands of power I made thee and with the fingers
    of strength I created thee; and within thee have I placed the essence of
    My light…

    O Son of Utterance! Thou art My stronghold; enter therein that thou mayest
    abide in safety. My love is in thee, know it, that thou mayest find Me
    near unto thee.

    O Son of Spirit! I created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself down to
    poverty? Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the
    essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment
    from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost
    thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou
    mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.

# What does the Bahá'í Faith reject?

Seems like a very open minded religion, I wonder what are the things that are
not Bahá'í -like.

Date: 2016-11-11

In addition to the other things that have been said here, a few of the other
things that the Bahá’í Faith rejects are:

  - Holy war
  - Book burning
  - Slavery
  - Slothfulness and slovenliness
  - Ignoring the plight of the poor
  - Contention and conflict
  - Asserting one’s opinions over another
  - Arguing about religious truth
  - Becoming the cause of sadness to another soul
  - Drawing any distinction between God’s Messengers, when viewed in the light
    of their Unity
  - Cruelty to animals
  - Backbiting, or “speaking ill of one who is absent”
  - Involvement in partisan politics
  - Falsehood and false testimony

# What do people of the Baha'i Faith think of other religions?

Date: 2016-11-11

There are two fundamental ways of viewing religion: From the perspective of
the Divine Unity, and the perspective of this world of distinction. Each
perspective has its own truth. In the realm of Unity, the Founder of each
religion is compared to the Sun: whatever season it may be on Earth, the Sun
is unchanged by it. Any differences witnessed are due to the orientation of
the Earth, and not the Sun.

When I think of other religions, I examine them according to this unity. Their
differences are due to the varying needs of humankind as it has developed. But
their inner reality is one and the same. Bahá’u’lláh wrote:

    If thou be of the inmates of this city within the ocean of divine unity,
    thou wilt view all the Prophets and Messengers of God as one soul and one
    body, as one light and one spirit, in such wise that the first among them
    would be last and the last would be first. For they have all arisen to
    proclaim His Cause and have established the laws of divine wisdom. They
    are, one and all, the Manifestations of his Self, the Repositories of His
    might, the Treasuries of His Revelation, the Dawning-Places of His
    splendour and the Daysprings of His light. Through them are manifested the
    signs of sanctity in the realities of all things and the tokens of oneness
    in the essences of all beings. Through them are revealed the elements of
    glorification in the heavenly realities and the exponents of praise in the
    eternal essences. From them hath all creation proceeded and unto them
    shall return all that hath been mentioned. And since in their in most
    Beings they are the same Luminaries and the self-same Mysteries, thou
    shouldst view their outward conditions in the same light, that thou mayest
    recognize them all as one Being, nay, find them united in their words,
    speech, and utterance.

In this light, all other religionists are my brothers and sisters, and I
always look to find the points of unity between their Faith and mine. Even if
time or differences in language have obscured it, it is always there.

# What are some proofs that are easier in Agda than Coq, and vice-versa?

Date: 2016-11-11

Writing proof-carrying, dependent code is generally easier in Agda, because it
has nice facilities for dependent case analysis, and uses Axiom K internally,
so heterogeneous equality isn’t something you have to wrestle with on a
low-level (that is, when the type of two things is equal “up to some trivial
rewrites”).

Coq is nice when using tactics to automate large, mechanical proofs, such as
semantic analysis, where one must often discharge numerous subgoals that are
uninteresting to the question at hand, in the form of branches in the syntax
tree.

That said, I use Coq for many things, and Agda for none, so it may also depend
on the project you have in mind, which theorem prover your colleagues use, and
who your final audience will be.

# What is the Baha'i understanding of the resurrection of Jesus?

Date: 2016-11-10

This question is one of those addressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Some Answered
Questions.

# Why aren't women allowed to become members of the supreme Baha'i administrative body, The Universal House of Justice?

Date: 2016-11-10

I think the only real answer right now is: We simply do not know.

If some wish to make this a touchstone of their belief — to accept or reject
Bahá’u’lláh based on their understanding of what “equality of the sexes”
should mean — that is their choice, and they are free and welcome to make that
choice. Otherwise, consider that God stands beyond all human conceptions of
morality, and if what Bahá’u’lláh claims is true, this is part of the remedy
for the ills of our age.

# Do minor prophets in the Baha'i Faith communicate directly with God? If not, do they know that they are prophets? If they know, how do they know?

Date: 2016-11-10

I’m not aware of anyone who is recognized as a “minor prophet” in the Bahá’í
Faith, and I only see this idea mentioned in one place in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings, where He states: “The station which he who hath truly recognized
this Revelation will attain is the same as the one ordained for such prophets
of the house of Israel as are not regarded as Manifestations ‘endowed with
constancy.’” Yet this talks only about their spiritual station, and not rights
or privileges.

# Do the Iranian people in general dislike the Baha'i faith?

Date: 2016-11-10

I meet Iranians all the time, and when they ask me why I speak Persian, I tell
them it’s because of my Faith. Their reaction, though, is really no different
than any other group: Some have heard of it, some haven’t, some show interest
in what it’s about, some never ask a further question. I can’t say Iranians in
general are much different, except they’re more likely to have heard about
Bahá’í than other groups of people, due to government propaganda (that is, if
they came to America from Iran).

# How true is the Bahá'í Faith?

Date: 2016-11-10

Anything is as true as its effects, and the only way to know is to put it to
test.

# What are the core principals of The Baha'i Faith?

Date: 2016-11-10

God is one, man is one. The Faith of God is unchanging, but it’s expression
among humankind changes as humanity develops, and is constantly renewed to
guide our evolution as a race of spiritual beings. The purpose underlying
creation is also one: to know and love God; and in accordance with its
perfect, underlying unity, knowing and loving God means truly “seeing” and
serving those around us.

There are many social principles in the Faith, each designed for the needs of
this age; but at its core, your question could be addressed to every Faith and
get the same answer: “This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the
past, eternal in the future.”

# What is the Christian view of the the Baha'i Faith?

Date: 2016-11-10

When seeking answers to this question, also keep in mind the branch of
Christianity that you’re asking. It is true that Bahá’í belief contradicts
many Christian sects: For example, we do not believe in the bodily
resurrection, clearly contradicting the beliefs of some Christians.

However, on nearly every point where Bahá’ís and Christians differ, there is
another branch of Christianity that also disagrees with their fellow
Christians on that point! This includes questions like the bodily
resurrection, meaning of the trinity, how prophecies are fulfilled, etc.

If there is this much disagreement among Christian sects, we should be
cautious about pitting “Christian belief” against “Bahá’í belief”. I think
there is quite a bit of harmony and mutual faith, depending on whom you ask
each particular question. Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have wonderful things
to say about Christ, and I have a hard time seeing my friends’ Christian
viewpoints as completely different from my own. Usually it’s just a few key
points we differ on — and the differences are based on sectarianism, rather
than a point that all of Christianity agrees is wrong.

# What is the Baha'i Faith to you?

Date: 2016-11-10

This physical life we are born into is just a beginning: not only of body and
soul, but also our awareness of the nature of existence. The Bahá’í Faith, to
me, is a treasure map telling how to venture through the wilds of that
existence, and discover the hidden cities of gold lying just beneath the veil
of seeming. Virtues are the skills needed to navigate this path — truly, it is
a journey of the heart — and service to others is how I place my feet down on
its soil. There is an essence created whenever unity takes root among a
people; and this, I believe, is when we begin to glimpse the Kingdom of God.
