Unless I'm mistaken, I see several questions being asked in your OP:

1. Why are we being asked to uphold Islám, if its social teachings are not
   relevant for today?

2. Since we have a new standard, and a new Revelation, why should we look to
   what has gone before, or feel the need to address it?

3. How can we uphold the divine beauty of the Qur'án, when it contains so
   many seemingly harsh verses?

I'd like to offer some thoughts on just the third question for now, since the
other two represent whole discussions of their own.

----

How do we, as lovers of the Ancient Beauty, come to recognize the gem-like
beauty of the Qur'án as an emanation from His Exalted Pen?

> Number me not with them who read Thy words and fail to find Thy hidden gift
  which, as decreed by Thee, is contained therein, and which quickeneth the
  souls of Thy creatures and the hearts of Thy servants. -- Bahá'u'lláh
  
You made the point that the Qur'án is outdated -- and in its moral and legal
teachings, it certainly is. If that weren't the case, God would not have sent
another Revelation. However, in its spiritual teachings, the Truths enshrined
within it remain unchanged. This is evidenced by how frequently Bahá'u'lláh
quotes from it to explain fundamental spiritual principles.

Defending Islám and the Qur'án does not mean justifying its practices in the
context of today's society. It means upholding its value and role in human
history, while preserving those eternal aspects that will never be eclipsed.

The Qur'án speaks often of fear, the fire, and God's wrathful vengeance; but
this is no ordinary fear, or fire, as it has been preached to the masses. That
fear is something you would cherish in your heart as a dear possession, and a
guarantor of victory -- as you might honor wisdom as a safeguard for
knowledge; and that fire is nothing other than unbelief itself, into which the
infidels are cast by their willful disobedience; and God's wrath is likewise
the harsh light of truth, as much as the Earth's, if you were to ignore the
laws of gravity and throw yourself from a great height.

Words like these have spiritual meanings that are greatly obscured by literal,
humanistic interpretations, that imagine God as some powerful, earthly-minded
king Who imposes whatever laws He wishes, while punishing the disobedient.
However, the beauty of Qur'án is not to be found in this view. Hold foremost
in your mind the goodness, love, and mercy of God, and then read His verses as
if there could be no other interpretation.

For example, in verse 2:59, we find a pretty scary statement:

> ... So We sent down a torment from Heaven upon those who did wrong for the
  iniquity they committed.

The word used here for torment is *rijz*, which is also translated as
"defilement" (or sometimes, evil whisperings) in verse 8:11:

> Behold, He covered you with sleepiness, security from Him, and sent down
  upon you water from the sky to purify you thereby, to remove the defilement
  of Satan from you, to fortify your hearts, and to make firm your steps
  thereby.

These "evil-whisperings of Satan" portray the promptings of the insistent
self, that inclines people toward evil. Thus, the "torment" sent down on those
who do wrong is to leave them to themselves! Compare this to a similar
statement from the Báb:

> Indeed shouldst Thou desire to confer blessing upon a servant Thou wouldst
  blot out from the realm of his heart every mention or disposition except
  Thine Own mention; and shouldst Thou ordain evil for a servant by reason of
  that which his hands have unjustly wrought before Thy face, Thou wouldst
  test him with the benefits of this world and of the next that he might
  become preoccupied therewith and forget Thy remembrance.

Rather than fire and brimstone, divine torment here is described as material
benefit and the promises of the next world! How opposite to any literal
reading of the Qur'ánic verse!

Similarly, many of the dreadful passage from the Qur'án can be understood in
another light: not as vengeful acts of an angry God, but conditions of spirit
whose ultimate effect is so horrible, that for some, only the literal message
conveys the intended meaning.

----

There are definitely social norms to take into account. For example, the verse
on women's testimony may have been to safeguard *the one being witnessed
against*, rather than an assessment of women, since women were largely
uneducated, and this could have resulted chance misunderstandings.  The Qur'án
does say (although I rarely hear this quoted):

> 3:194-195 "Our Lord! Give us what Thou hast promised us through Thy
  messengers, and disgrace us not on the Day of Resurrection. Truly Thou wilt
  not fail the tryst." So their Lord answered them, “I shall not let the work
  of any worker among you, male or female, be in vain; each of you is like the
  other....
  
The *legal* status of women should not be read as a measure of their inherent
worth, since in the sight of God, they are alike spiritually.  However, their
status on this earth was most certainly not (yet) made equal, even though men
were commanded to protect women:

> 4:34 Men are the upholders and maintainers of women by virtue of that in
  which God has favored some of them above others and by virtue of their
  spending from their wealth. Therefore the righteous women are devoutly
  obedient, guarding in [their husbands'] absence what God has guarded. As for
  those from whom you fear discord and animosity, admonish them, then leave
  them in their beds, then strike them. Then if they obey you, seek not a way
  against them.
  
Again, contrast this
with
[the humanity of the time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women_in_pre-Islamic_Arabia):
when girl children were being buried alive, and women were not considered
human beings. If the goal of the Qur'án was to educate mankind, to promote
unity, and to prepare civilization for the next Manifestation of God, it
needed to advance the people to the degree they were capable.

----

Another idea is that some verses may have been meant to be "observed in the
breach". That is, a verse may say one thing, but was really meant as a test of
the believers' understanding. For example, in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh
says we may marry two wives, if we can treat both with justice. `Abdu'l-Bahá
later clarifies this meant "only one". Well, guess how the Qur'án puts it:

> 4:3 ... marry such women as seem good to you, two, three, or four; but if
  you fear that you will not deal justly, then only one, or those whom your
  right hands possess. Thus it is more likely that you will not commit
  injustice.
  
And:

> 4:129 You will not be able to deal fairly between women, even if it is your
  ardent desire...
  
This also seems to say, "only one", in the same language, but since there was
no authorized Interpreter, it was left to the believers to understand this.
As Bahá'u'lláh has quoted from tradition:

> "Verily Our Word is abstruse, bewilderingly abstruse." In another instance,
  it is said: "Our Cause is sorely trying, highly perplexing; none can bear it
  except a favorite of heaven, or an inspired Prophet, or he whose faith God
  hath tested."
  
The Qur'án was not just a guide book to build a prosperous civilization; it
was also a challenge and a test, meant to try humanity, and prepare them for
the New Age that would come.
