                                   COMMENTS

# The Bahá’í Faith, for the most part, seems pretty great, but...

To give you another perspective: I've been in this Faith for 26 years now, and
have held many institutional positions in that time: assistant, assembly
chairperson, treasurer, cluster development facilitator, ATC secretary, Ruhi
tutor (many times over), etc.; you can fairly say I've drunk the cool-aid.

So with much experience I tell you: I adore our Universal House of Justice.
When you consider the scope and difficulty of their decision making process,
and how many different cultures and peoples it affects, it is amazing they
progress as smoothly as they do. And their letters... my God, their letters...
it's like mother's milk poured directly into the heart.

It's very easy to cast the seeds of doubt, but only ignorance will allow them
to take root. If these matters trouble you, then do not become a Baha'i today,
but spend your time with these people and determine for yourself if they are
delusional or sincere. Justice requires that you "see with thine own eyes, and
not through the eyes of another."

Let me know what you find; for my part, I continue to be happy to throw in my
lot with these beautiful souls.

# What is the gate through which I need to passthrough, to become enlightened as (conceived in Zen Buddhism)?

A plan is not the bad thing, just how we relate to it.

Wisdom cannot be found without seeking knowledge, but knowledge does not grant
wisdom -- in fact, can prevent it. One must acquire that knowledge with the
understanding that only freedom from it makes it worthwhile.

This is the paradox that causes us to fail from the first step; to answer it
requires passing beyond failure and success. It's about the freedom to see,
not the perfection of sight.

# My Prayer (from ictoran)

When we start from the assumption that between "here" and "There" a great
distance remains, the Divine is very hard to find because it dwells closer
than our life's vein.

The body, and the needs of body, are not a standard for the spirit. Thus,
interpreting "good" as pleasant, and "evil" as pain or loss, makes reading
religious scripture very confusing indeed.

The motion of the sun seems so obvious from our earth-bound perspective:
turning and twirling, ever-dancing. Now rise above the perception of human
conception, and see that you are the dancer: all these changes and chances are
within you. The Sun has been One all along.

# What is the gate through which I need to passthrough, to become enlightened?

I think there is no gate to pass through. The "gateless barrier" is awareness
itself. It is a barrier because the untrained mind thinks of "he who is aware"
and "what he is aware of"; it is gateless because there is nothing to pass
through, nothing to gain, any more than we can become rich by dreaming. We can
only awaken to the fact that there is no barrier but our own sight: no passing
through, no traveler, no destination. Only the sun, the moon, and nothing in
between.

# Koan of a dead cat's head

The koan distinguishes between value as a property of things-in-themselves --
the common belief -- and value as an attribution applied by the mind.

Since no one associates value with the head of a dead cat, it becomes
"priceless". This points at the ludicrous nature of applied value judgments,
and turns the student's view of the world on its head.

In other words, asking the question proves he does not see
things-in-themselves, so the master throws him a curveball that doesn't fit
his conception of "what has meaning". It's a monkey-wrench in the works, and
is meant to cause discomfort leading to realization. The use of a dead cat's
head has shock value -- coming from a revered master -- meant to intensify
this effect.

# What is the point of Bahai?

If all books lead to knowledge, what's the point of new ones? :)

God is infinite, and every Prophet reveals a fuller measure of His glory and
mystery. They all lead to the same Placeless Place, but each Messenger has
more to teach us about that destination as we evolve.

# Do Baha'i consider Sharia law a legitimate form of governance?

I think that, without changing the root of the problem, even if you fight
corruption and win, the winners will be gradually be replaced by more who are
corrupt. Until hearts are changed, all peace is temporary, and any appearance
of justice is transient. The battle against injustice must be won on the field
of hearts, not policy or media sentiment or popular opinion.

> See then how wide is the difference between material civilization and
  divine. With force and punishments, material civilization seeketh to
  restrain the people from mischief, from inflicting harm on society and
  committing crimes. But in a divine civilization, the individual is so
  conditioned that with no fear of punishment, he shunneth the perpetration of
  crimes, seeth the crime itself as the severest of torments, and with
  alacrity and joy, setteth himself to acquiring the virtues of humankind, to
  furthering human progress, and to spreading light across the world. --
  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

# Please teach me how I can lose anger quickly?

Not saying it's easy, but: You're always angry at "something", and that
something never really exists. No one stays angry at a physical object, but
what that object means to them -- and we define this meaning, whether we're
aware we do it or not.

I believe there can also be physical anger and irritation, but this is quick
to fade. It's the anger we "hold on to" that you probably meant.

Rather than trying to control the anger, find the origin of what you're really
angry about, even if it takes hard work to discover. It's the ludicrous nature
of this anger that makes it ultimately disappear, not because you become a
better person, or engage mental acrobatics, or find ways to eliminate it.
It'll disappear suddenly, on its own, once you see that it's basically the
same of being angry at a mad face painted on a balloon.

# I miss my dad today.

I don't think missing your father is unnatural, because if he were here, you
could be doing things with him. If I have a screw, but no screwdriver, I'd
miss the tool; recognizing the absence of something isn't "just mind".

The thing to contemplate is your sadness at the fact, and where that feeling
arises from. In addition to being sad, you have strong desires: that it should
never have taken place, that it was wrong, unfair, unjust. These desires fuel
your awareness of his absence as a deeply painful thing. Yet if you'd been
brought up in a society where adults naturally took their lives at a certain
age, as an honored and celebrated practice, you might still miss him, but be
proud or even happy. Same circumstances, different response.

Similarly, the taste of vanilla won't change overnight, and it's natural for
the body to desire some flavors more than others. This is part of how animals
survive in the wild, by following their cravings. Granted, the makers of ice
cream abuse this by giving us sugar and fat mixed together, but the root of
the preference is still in the body. Greed arises when you don't want it to
end, or wish other things were vanilla, or begin to taste everything in
comparison to vanilla.

So I don't think it's the total absence of loss or enjoyment that you're
looking for, but freedom from how your desires bind you to them. You'd think
from reading this sub that the enlightened ones is are robots; I've seen
people claim one should have no emotions, thoughts, ideas, or varieties of
experience... I don't think that's it. If a free man happens to eat the same
food as a man in prison, the world of difference isn't found in the diet.

# Lost the motivation to do anything.

What you've described reminds me of the 5th case from the Mumonkan:

> Kyogen said, "It (Zen) is like a man hanging by his teeth in a tree over a
  precipice. His hands grasp no branch, his feet rest on no limb, and under
  the tree another man asks him, 'Why did Bodhidharma come to China from the
  West?' If the man in the tree does not answer, he misses the question, and
  if he answers, he falls and loses his life. Now what shall he do?"
  
> Mumon's Comment:
  
> In such a predicament, though your eloquence flows like a river, it is all
  to no avail. Even if you can explain all of the Buddhist sutras, that also
  is useless. If you can rightly answer the question, you walk the road of
  killing the living and reviving the dead. But if you cannot answer, you
  should wait for ages and ask Maitreya, the future Buddha.
  
>     Kyogen had really bad taste,  
      And spreads the poison everywhere,  
      He stuffs with it the monks' mouths,  
      And lets their tears stream from their dead eyes.

The question "What is love?" has a simple and immediate answer, but can never
be shared and no one has ever understood it, though lovers consider it as
plain as breathing. And just as studying books and practicing will not help
you find it, neither will not studying and not practicing. Seek with openness,
and it may find you, but the seeking is not the cause, and the moment of
finding is not the desired result. Anyone who wishes to strip love of its
mystery will lose if they win, and win if they lose. After the log meets the
fire, it discovers purpose in watching itself disappear.

# Struggling

There is no "division between selves". The inner self you see is the same as
your petty self, and every other "self": reflections on a rain drop. Now
splashing onto the ground, they scatter, but the water is still unchanged.

Inner harmony or unity is not the answer; see that the drama of disunity
playing in your mind is something you're telling yourself exists -- and you
believe it so completely! How strange.

# Spot the Error: Lungya's Sharp Sword

I wonder that too. Although I recognize when no-sword cuts no-neck, and
no-answer speaks no-word, I have yet to feel the bite of steel on my nape.

You ask for words and I choke; you ask for no words and I gasp for air.
Between the two, I can't find my face with both hands.

# Spot the Error: Lungya's Sharp Sword

Lungya posed a fanciful question, and Deshan played along. Dongshan posed a
fanciful question, and Lungya failed to play along. The error was thinking
that the first scenario was fantasy, but the second was real.

# What do you do with these contradictions between Christianity and the Baha'i Faith?

> First off, before the objection is raised that the scriptures of
  Christianity have been corrupted, I want to go ahead and dispel that as best
  I can. The New Testament, which is the main focus of Christian doctrines and
  ideas, has been preserved quite well.

We agree with you that the Bible is the divine foundation of the church of
Christ; [CARM](https://carm.org/quran-says-bible-not-corrupt) even agrees that
the Qur'án teaches this as well. So, no argument on this point.

I recommend [this course](http://oyc.yale.edu/religious-studies/rlst-152) from
Yale University on the historicity of the New Testament. It's interesting to
note that some scholars estimate
[hundreds of thousands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Textual_variants_in_the_New_Testament)
of textual variants among New Testament documents. There are even cases where
scholars have found that a
[verse was not biblical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma_Johanneum).

Based on this, I propose that arguing theological points using certain words
in the Bible may not be a fruitful course. Even if I agree with you that the
message conveyed is what God intended, the specific texts may not be
letter-for-letter authentic (i.e., future research may discover further
discrepancies).

----

> The Bible seems to very obviously teach that God is one being in three
  persons: the doctrine of the Trinity.

I wish this obviousness had prevailed at the
[council of Chalcedon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Council_of_Chalcedon), as
it would have avoided the resulting bloodshed between the followers of Cyril
and Nestorious, and the emperor Justinian, saving hundreds of thousands of
lives and healing a rift that has continued to the present day between
[Catholics and the Orthodox church](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Orthodox_–_Roman_Catholic_theological_differences#Trinity).

In sum: This is not an obvious point at all, and many Christians across the
world continue to debate it. There is no need to look to the Bahá'ís for
contending views of the Trinity.

----

> The Bible teaches that we are justified by faith, not our works... It is
  taught that this is a very finalized action, and that nothing beyond that is
  needed and nothing beyond that can help in the atonement of sins.

Bahá'ís also believe that deeds depend on faith, as it is stated at the very
beginning of our book of laws. In fact, all deeds are entirely dependent on
the Good pleasure of God, and do not, of themselves, guarantee anything about
a believer's progress in the next world:

> Were anyone to wash the feet of all mankind, and were he to worship God in
  the forests, valleys, and mountains, upon high hills and lofty peaks, to
  leave no rock or tree, no clod of earth, but was a witness to his worship --
  yet, should the fragrance of My good pleasure not be inhaled from him, his
  works would never be acceptable unto God. -- Bahá'u'lláh

----

> The Bible teaches that Jesus was literally physically raised from the dead,
  but the Baha'i Faith teaches that it was a spiritual resurrection and not a
  physical one by any means.

We are not alone in this: Jehovah's Witnesses -- who certainly consider
themselves Christian -- also teach that the resurrection was spiritual. As do
[some others who identify as Christian](https://www.ecclesia.org/truth/corinthians.html).

[CARM](https://carm.org/jesus-resurrection-was-physical), on the other hand,
is pretty clear about the resurrection being physical. To this I would ask:
what about statements from the Torah that are "clearly physical" that Christ
did not outwardly fulfill? He did not rule with a sword, even though swords
are pretty obvious tools of war.

If Christians are willing to interpret Judaic prophecy figuratively, it should
open the door to examining deeper meanings behind these apparently "obvious"
verses. Is it not possible that the author used a more physical presentation
of his meaning, so that hearers of the time would be certain about the
resurrection of Christ's spirit?

I do not suggest this to say it's true, since I don't know what Thomas
actually witnessed. I merely raise the question as a possibility, since there
are Christians before me who have raised it also.

----

> So, if you are, in fact correct as you say you are, how does the Baha'i
  Faith reconcile these direct contradictions of fundamental beliefs about the
  nature of God and our reality?

We reconcile it by saying that such contradictions arise from human
interpretations of Scripture, not Scripture itself. Scripture, being from God,
is never contradictory -- no matter how obvious such a contradiction may seem.
Whenever it appears to contradict in meaning, it is a challenge to humankind
to deepen its understanding of the inner meaning and intent.

> In truth, were He [God] to pronounce the earth to be heaven, no one hath the
  right to question His authority. -- Bahá'u'lláh

----

> My apologies if any of this came off as rude.

At no point did I think anything you said was rude, or ill-meant!

My hope is for you to become stronger in your Christianity, and your life in
Christ. I'm happy you came here to challenge us in our beliefs, because doing
so is one of the best ways to deepen your own understanding.

# Mumon's poem about his experience

I think that just as there can be over-intellectualization in Zen study, there
can also be under-intellectualization.

I'm not qualified to tell you what Mumon thought, or felt -- and what follows
is probably not found in the words of Zen masters. I offer it only as more
food for thought.

Looking at the context of the story: Mumon did not "just hear the lunchtime
drum" and gain enlightenment. He had been working diligently, for six years,
on the "mu" koan up to this point. So, on this day, what he heard was roughly
the 2000th lunchtime drum, after painstaking deliberation. His mind was ripe,
and I'm guessing he'd thought a fair bit about the drum's role in his life up
to that point.

A drum alone is neither good nor evil: just a percussive sound. But a
lunchtime drum carries additional meaning based on the use we make of it:
signaling lunch. To a monk slaving away at a koan for six years, it might have
also come to mean other things:

  - the promise of satisfaction of hunger and physical emptiness;
  - a break from the tedium of sitting;
  - a time to be around the noise of others for a moment, before going back to
    silence;
  - etc.

In other words, "drum" becomes "lunchtime drum" becomes "lunchtime drum
colored by experience". I imagine that, after six years, the lunchtime drum
was a significant moment within the day, with quite an effect on
consciousness. Especially since there was so little else going on that could
have a similar effect, as it was connected to a deep, physical motivation
(hunger).

So maybe, just maybe, when the drum sounded, Mumon realized his true self had
become "Mumon" in the same way the drum had turned into a "lunchtime" drum;
and all the extra meaning imbued in that drum was like the layers on top of
"Mumon". "mu" wipes it all away, down to the nature underneath, "the original
Face".

# 3 More Questions from a Possible Convert

For #1-2, there is a core principle here somewhat unique to Bahá’í theology,
even if echoes of it are found in other religions (just not as emphasized):
The Prophets each have a two-fold station: one that is worldly and one that is
Divine.

It is like the Sun, which has both a terrestrial aspect -- where it is seen
traveling around the Earth, and changing its zenith with the seasons -- and a
Universal aspect, where it resides at the center of the solar system and all
the other planets revolving around it, while it itself turns only around the
galactic center.

Depending on how you look at the Prophets -- by their earthly or their
Heavenly aspect, with regard to their Seen or their Hidden nature -- it
changes the meaning of what they say about themselves.

In the Hidden sense, every Prophet is the "be all end all", since the Primal
Will, the animating Spirit of the Prophets, is one and absolute. It is only in
the Manifest sense that each Prophet has a special station, and shines with a
certain measure of His beauty.

When people take these Hidden statements, and refuse to interpret them by
anything other than their Manifest meaning, this is when religion become a
battleground for conflicting opinions, rather than a means for the unification
of all peoples.

# Prezi uses Haskell

I want to offer a different experience from Jon, so that people know that
Haskell can also be perfectly suitable for this sort of development.

I worked at FP Complete during the time they were building their Web IDE; I
also wrote an in-house billing system to support sales for that IDE. All of
this code, written by several people, used many different Haskell features:
transformer stacks, exceptions, networking, concurrency, databases, Template
Haskell, the C FFI, etc We didn't use many advanced, type-level features,
which may be one reason the experience was so much better. We also used
conduit pretty much everywhere from the beginning, which helped keep space
usage and performance constant.

Overall, Haskell was a great language to develop this application in. It
allowed a fairly small team to respond quickly to changing requirements, and
let us build feature-rich, performant code within a brief time table. Space
leaks were fairly rare, and I don't recall pulling my hair out to find them.
Also, our target was rather performance sensitive (especially with regard to
latency), so it wasn't that we were ignoring these issues, either.

We did learn a few things, though. First, keep the amount of "richness" to a
moderate level. Introducing new libraries and new language features often came
at a price that was only discovered much later. I remember tracking down a
latency bug for several days that ended up stemming from a recent use of the
"pretty-show" library to prettify debug strings, not realizing how slow it can
be if the values have a large amount of structure. Sticking with ordinary
"show" would have avoided the problem.

Type classes were often more trouble than they were worth. Transformer stacks
were bad, too, in terms of type errors, but you get used to them. You just
need to understand the semantics of how the levels interact very, very well.

Error handling was mostly resolved by using Either to reflect evaluation
failures (i.e., an input value that didn't make sense), and exceptions to
reflect execution failures (e.g., trying to read from a socket that was
suddenly closed).

The lack of standardization didn't bite so hard, because again, we weren't
using much beyond Haskell2010 and several convenience features (ViewPatterns,
OverloadedStrings, DeriveFunctor, etc). I'm not against the use of advanced
features, but they come at a cost that needs to be understood from prior
experience, rather than inflicted on a new project for the first time.

My worst bugs ever? They came in two flavors: crashes in C and C++ over the
FFI (typically a nightmare to debug); and cases where the type system was
unable to detect a semantics violation (for example, passing a function to
"hoist" that fit the type, but was not a monad morphism).

I also came to a gradual awareness that if you feel like you're pushing your
code uphill, you're doing too much work. Good Haskell has a certain lightness
of being to it, making it typically quite easy to debug and extend. Whenever
the code stopped having this feeling, almost invariably it was because I'd
added something that shouldn't have been there. I recall many pleasant
evenings reviewing code with Michael Snoyman, only to watch half the functions
and variables disappear because we were using too many "words" to say a simple
thing.

If you try to cram everything Haskell can do into one project, expect it to
fail brilliantly. But if you apply the right economy of thought, I think you
will find it quite rewarding.

# Question about the Seal of the Prophets

There are actually several meanings to this station. One is that Muhammad is
the last of the cycle of Prophethood, before the coming of the Twin
Manifestations, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

But another is that every Manifestation is both the beginning and the end, the
Alpha and the Omega. They are to be regarded as the same Soul, with the same
Purpose. In such a station, They are all the Origin, and They are all the
Seal.

Every time a Messenger of God claims that They are "the Way", it challenges
humankind to understand the essential unity of that Ancient Being. He appears
from age to age, and cycle to cycle; all that differs is the form of the
Message -- to suit our needs and understanding -- and not the beauty of His
Light.

For example, consider the rising sun. Whether at dawn, noon or twilight, it is
the same Sun at every stage. The intensity and color of its revelation
differs, but the nature of the sun itself is constant. The morning Sun could
truthfully claim, "My rays precede the night." With respect to what we know of
mornings, this statement might be difficult to comprehend; but with regard to
the sun's own reality, it is completely true.

# Question about Moral Laws

One thing to keep in mind is that God can arbitrarily do things without
justification. A parent does not need a child's approval or understanding to
lay down rules in the home. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, "He doeth as He doeth, and
what recourse have we? He carrieth out His Will, He ordaineth what He
pleaseth. Then better for thee to bow down thy head in submission, and put thy
trust in the All-Merciful Lord."

Why He has ordained certain things will always be a challenge, since our
understanding is woefully incomplete. If indeed God sees all and knows all,
then He sees things we do not.

# Suffering

Viewed on its own, physical death and suffering in this world are among the
worst of its evils. How can God, Who is so good, permit these evils to
constantly triumph?

Viewed in the context of a life beyond, where this world is only the beginning
of a vast and varied journey, the picture changes. Then physical suffering is
not the worst outcome; in fact, a lack of suffering, causing one to neglect
all spiritual matters, is much worse.

If the reality of the next life is weak-minded, then I honestly don't think
you will find a satisfying answer. Some things only make sense in their proper
context; divorced from that context, they remain nonsensical.

It's a bit like asking why our body should feel pain, without considering how
our health is generally preserved by that pain. Does it mean all pain is
useful? No. Errant pains are part of the nature of our body. But there is no
pain that will endure forever. God made our soul to inhabit this body. The
body experiences what it will, but the soul is where the meaning lies.

# Question about Moral Laws

The Faith of God is generally quite considerate of people's minds, but there
are some changes that need to happen whether we understand them or not. A
doctor often explains his remedy to you, but sometimes the issue is too
complex for a satisfying description. Does this mean the doctor cannot be
trusted?

Bahá’u’lláh writes: "Know verily that the essence of justice and the source
thereof are both embodied in the ordinances prescribed by Him Who is the
Manifestation of the Self of God amongst men, if ye be of them that recognize
this truth. He doth verily incarnate the highest, the infallible standard of
justice unto all creation.... Were men to discover the motivating purpose of
God's Revelation, they would assuredly cast away their fears, and, with hearts
filled with gratitude, rejoice with exceeding gladness."

# Euthyphro's Dilemma

Why is it wrong for morality to be arbitrary? If God created existence, He
knows what benefits us in this existence. The idea that there is a higher
standard God should refer to when ruling His creation makes it meaningless to
use the word "God".

I think the real question is: Can we trust God? If He is the author of all, is
He presenting us with a fair and beneficial moral code, or is He being devious
or frivolous in some way?

This is a very important, and personal, point to contemplate. Many accuse God
of being unfair. What do you think?

# My First Baha'i Holiday

What you describe lies at the heart of the religious experience:

> For the core of religious faith is that mystic feeling which unites Man with
  God. This state of spiritual communion can be brought about and maintained
  by means of meditation and prayer. And this is the reason why Bahá’u’lláh
  has so much stressed the importance of worship. It is not sufficient for a
  believer merely to accept and observe the teachings. He should, in addition,
  cultivate the sense of spirituality which he can acquire chiefly by means of
  prayer. The Bahá’í Faith, like all other Divine Religions, is thus
  fundamentally mystic in character. Its chief goal is the development of the
  individual and society, through the acquisition of spiritual virtues and
  powers. It is the soul of man which has first to be fed. And this spiritual
  nourishment prayer can best provide. -- Shoghi Effendi

# Euthyphro's Dilemma

The ability to create arbitrarily is what defines "God"; otherwise, there
would exist a higher standard, and what would the nature of that standard be?

> With a look He granteth a hundred thousand hopes, with a glance He healeth a
  hundred thousand incurable ills, with a nod He layeth balm on every wound,
  with a glimpse He freeth the hearts from the shackles of grief. He doeth as
  He doeth, and what recourse have we? He carrieth out His Will, He ordaineth
  what He pleaseth. Then better for thee to bow down thy head in submission,
  and put thy trust in the All-Merciful Lord.

# The Oneness of Humanity

I agree! A long time ago I found that every truth I discovered about "God" was
also, in some way, a truth about "humanity", which in turn was a truth about
"myself". There is a realm in which all things have their proper place and
station; and there is another in which all things are united, rays of the same
Sun. Yet even these two realms are in harmony, like the sides of a coin, and
work toward the same purpose.

# A Continuation on the Euthyphro Dilemma

If I understand correctly, your question boils down to: "Who created God?"

The only thing even close to an answer I can offer is that the concept of
"creation", and its opposite "destruction", exist because of the nature of the
reality within which we posit these questions. At the level of God's own
Being, it is unreasonable to assume a similar ontological structure to the
world that we know and that governs our reasoning.

I think Wittgenstein said it best: "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must
be silent."

# Another question has arisen.

"All that is in heaven and earth I have ordained for thee, except the human
heart..."

God made us in order for our hearts to turn toward Him; but He desires that to
happen willingly and sincerely. For such to be true, we must always be free
either to believe or not believe. I don't mean membership in a Faith either,
but what we really think about God in our hearts.

If the sun hugged the Earth, the Earth would burn away: it would destroy the
fragile life of our planet. So instead, the glory of the sun is mediated
through its rays, allowing us to receive its heat and light, but in a form we
can survive.

If God stood before you today, and manifested undeniable proof of His Being,
your purpose in having been created would vanish. He knows that He is real; He
doesn't need your belief. Your love would then be automatic, and not the true
love of which the human soul is capable. He hides Himself in order that you
may know the inimitable joy of finding Him.

We live this life in the darkest of nights, that we might come to apprehend
even the least glimmerings of His truth. And when the dawn finally comes, and
our souls are freed from these bodily cages, we will be in a position to
cherish every revelation.

Imagine you were a wealthy king, and wanted your newborn son to value and
appreciate the kingdom he would inherit. Likely the best method would be to
allow him to be raised in poverty and squalor, unaware of his inheritance,
enduring the pain of his fellow subjects. Yet what mortal king has such love
and self-denial, that he would allow his infant son to suffer, in order to
bring about that future king's most noble self?

Everywhere around you -- in the darkness, the pain, the suffering -- is the
manifestation of a love so great, it is both invisible, and entirely
mysterious and bewildering. If it were otherwise, how could it offer its
ultimate prize?

# In this day every believer must concentrate his thoughts on teaching the
  Faith...

I agree with you that teaching is about planting a seed, and not just making
people aware that the seed exists; and while the growth of the seed is not our
task, as you suggested, we don't plant it merely to stick it in the ground.

Planting is still a (relatively) easy process. Consolidation, or nurturing
growth when it finally happens toward a strong plant that can, in turn, cast
its own seeds, this is where the real work lies.

I guess I separate these two, to overcome the barriers many people feel toward
teaching as being a huge burden and responsibility. Teaching is really about
imparting your joy and wonder at this thing you've discovered. Beyond that,
however, there is a duty to nurture that soul. You can say this is "part of
teaching", or you can say it is what happens after teaching. Whatever you find
the most encouraging.

# Between fear and love

The following is from http://iranpresswatch.org/post/3812/, written by a
Baha'i, Aram Anahid:

Baha’i writings assert that while social order is upheld by means of reward
and punishment, the banner of religion is uplifted by Khashiyat Allah, or the
fear of God:

> The word of God which the Abha Pen hath revealed and inscribed on the first
  leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise is this: Verily I say: The fear of God
  hath ever been a sure defense and a safe stronghold for all the peoples of
  the world. It is the chief cause of the protection of mankind, and the
  supreme instrument for its preservation.[7]

“Khashiyat Allah” is a Quranic term that refers to a sense of awe and
reverence inspired by an individual’s recognition of the majesty of God.
According to Tousi, khashiyat defers from khauf (fear) in that while khauf is
a painful feeling brought on by the prospect of punishment, khashiyat is an
emotional state induced by an individual’s recognition of the Absolute
Greatness of God.[8] While both khauf and khashyiat are seen as psychological
states that can cause obedience to God, the two operate differently. In the
case of khashyiat, obedience is caused not by fear of punishment, but by the
love of God.

The distinction between khauf and khashyiat finds expression in Baha’i
writings:

> In formulating the principles and laws a part hath been devoted to penalties
  which form an effective instrument for the security and protection of men.
  However, dread (khauf) of the penalties maketh people desist only outwardly
  from committing vile and contemptible deeds, while that which guardeth and
  restraineth man both outwardly and inwardly hath been and still is the fear
  of God (khashiyat Allah). It is man’s true protector and his spiritual
  guardian. It behoveth him to cleave tenaciously unto that which will lead to
  the appearance of this supreme bounty.[9]

# Between fear and love

Not only that, but from another letter written on behalf of the Guardian
(Lights of Guidance, #1664):

> The Bahá'ís should try to study history anew, and to base all their
  investigations first and foremost on the written Scriptures of Islam and
  Christianity.

Ignoring the historical context of our Faith will only make it seem more
mysterious. There are a number of places where it references centuries of
debate in a single phrase; not knowing the debate leads one to understand only
the surface meaning of such references.

# Two Questions About Baha'i God

"If this is the same God, then why does he make the religions contradict each
other?"

We believe that God is the Supreme physician, Who knows the remedy for each
age in which He appears to man through the Manifestations of God. He knows
what needs to be said, and how, in order to effect the best result for society
at each time.

Until we are capable of judging the entirety of God's plan, saying that God is
confused is like saying that a doctor is confused because the remedy he gave
us in childhood doesn't correspond, in our view, with another remedy he gives
us in adulthood.

# Have you ever had a spiritual quickening type experience that destabilized
  your life?

Btw, Sufis call what you describe Hal. As one Sufi writer puts it, "[Hal is]
something that descends from God into a man’s heart, without his being able to
repel it when it comes, or to attract it as it goes, by his own effort." The
opposite of this -- an enduring change that is the result of diligent and
sincere effort -- is Maqam. In English we translate Hal as "state" and Maqam
as "station".

Bahá’u’lláh frequently uses both of these words in His Writings. He describes
the Seven Valleys within the framework of three Maqam (limitation, unity,
annihilation and eternity in God). Because God grants us favors through His
grace, I imagine we also experience them as Hal, temporarily.

# Something I wonder sometimes

God is nearer to us than our life's vein, and we are always "but one step away
from the glorious heights above, and the celestial Tree of Love." I don't
think the Abhá Kingdom is a place we are debarred from until we are worthy,
because we are never worthy. "Should God punish men for their perverse doings,
He would not leave on earth a moving thing."

The real paradise for human souls lies in recognition of the Manifestation of
God. I mean, really, truly knowing who He is, and what He represents. If we
knew this, we would cry for joy until expiring from this life. This is the
Abhá Kingdom, and to reach it requires changing our vision, our perception,
the very fabric of who we think we are.

This sort of sea change cannot come about through study or reflection; not
even by action alone. It must be accompanied by sacrifice, pain, and constant
testing. We are all iron ingots, being pounded into shining blades of steel.
There is no moment's rest, no greater joy than to be fashioned into our
perfect state, hammer blow by hammer blow.

If this does not accord with our current definition of happiness, then our
concept of happiness must be changed for something greater. A seed is quite
happy far under the ground, but this is not fitting for a tree; the infant
must endure being born if he is to live, no matter how happy a place the womb
world might be.

Is this process hard, difficult, arduous? Of course it is. And the reward is
equally wondrous, delightful, and amazing. If we only knew!

# A teenager seeking for answers about Bahai

It really depends on the person, as with anything else. There are those of us
who do just want your well-being, and what you do or don't believe is between
you and God. The best way to learn the truth of someone's motives is to
befriend them, and afterward, keep with those who are sincere. It's a
beautiful Faith, with much to offer, but it doesn't convey instant perfection
on anyone.

# A teenager seeking for answers about Bahai

It's actually good that you're having a hard time thinking about God! God is a
perfect mystery, and no mind will ever know Him. What leads us to
understanding are: purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. I
very much agree with your atheism, if it's the grandfather-in-the-sky God
you're thinking of. Seek the God Whose attributes are reflected in your own
heart, and Whose light dawns from the Holy Scriptures.

# To Bequeath to the Needy

The quote itself doesn't use the word generosity... The wealth that a man
gives to others may be fruitfully used by them, in which case the giver is
partly responsible for that fruit as well. It could be these results that
profit him after death, and not only the spirit in which it was given. Once he
is passed, the man will recognize the truth of things, and so I'm sure he will
see the benefit resulting from his gift, some of which may then return to him.

# Bearer of this Tablet

Something else to keep in mind is that, historically, Bahá’u’lláh wrote many
tablets to specific people, and He would sometimes give that tablet to one of
the believers to deliver by hand, a journey that could take months, or that
might incur great danger (such as Badi's delivery of the Tablet to
Nasiru'd-Din Shah, which resulted in his death). Since these bearers were
performing a dangerous service to God in this capacity, it is not strange that
Bahá’u’lláh might include a prayer to God that they be kept safe on their way.

# A teenager seeking for answers about Bahai

In the mystical writings of the Bahá’í Faith, there is much written about how,
as souls, we may approach God through the purification of our hearts, and
readying ourselves to receive His grace. For example, in the Seven Valleys
Bahá’u’lláh writes:

> For God is, in His Essence, holy above ascent and descent, entrance and
  exit; He hath through all eternity been free of the attributes of human
  creatures, and ever will remain so. No man hath ever known Him; no soul hath
  ever found the pathway to His Being. Every mystic knower hath wandered far
  astray in the valley of the knowledge of Him; every saint hath lost his way
  in seeking to comprehend His Essence. Sanctified is He above the
  understanding of the wise; exalted is He above the knowledge of the knowing!
  The way is barred and to seek it is impiety; His proof is His signs; His
  being is His evidence.

So how we can understand God at all? It happens that we can be near to God,
even in this life, but it happens in the heart, not the mind. In the Four
Valleys it says:

> How can feeble reason encompass the Qur’án, Or the spider snare a phoenix in
  his web? Wouldst thou that the mind should not entrap thee? Teach it the
  science of the love of God!

And the other quote I was vaguely referring to before was this one:

> The understanding of His words and the comprehension of the utterances of
  the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent upon human learning. They
  depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit.
  This is evidenced by those who, today, though without a single letter of the
  accepted standards of learning, are occupying the loftiest seats of
  knowledge; and the garden of their hearts is adorned, through the showers of
  divine grace, with the roses of wisdom and the tulips of understanding. Well
  is it with the sincere in heart for their share of the light of a mighty
  Day!

I could write a lot more about this, but I'll stop here. If you have further
questions, please ask.

# Bahaullah writings on chastity?

He wrote many things about purity and rectitude of conduct, as well as
centering one's desires on God, as did the Báb. Although not often an explicit
reference to sexual chastity, the latter is just one aspect of the former.

# Need Advice

Being acutely aware of a lack of connection is actually a good thing, because
it shows sincerity in your search for God. I would suggest: keep reading the
Writings, meditating, reflecting, and being active in your search. Also, check
out the Valley of Search; it has much to say about this, in my opinion.

# THW, P41

When the Writings speak of this world and the next, it can also refer to the
world of self, and the world of nearness to God:

> Know ye that by "the world" is meant your unawareness of Him Who is your
  Maker, and your absorption in aught else but Him. The "life to come," on the
  other hand, signifieth the things that give you a safe approach to God, the
  All-Glorious, the Incomparable.

Viewed in this sense, the first sentence of the Hidden World could be saying
that if we only knew the station of a pure heart, devoted to God, we would
impatiently cast away our selves.

In another Hidden Word He writes:

> Possess a pure, kindly, and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty,
  ancient, imperishable and everlasting.

Here again we see the image of an immortal sovereignty, but it refers to a
condition of heart, and not the worlds after physical death. And the phrase
"strive to pass from this fleeting world" reminds me of another verse along
these lines:

> O My Brother! A pure heart is as a mirror; cleanse it with the burnish of
  love and severance from all save God, that the true sun may shine within it
  and the eternal morning dawn. Then wilt thou clearly see the meaning of
  "Neither doth My earth nor My heaven contain Me, but the heart of My
  faithful servant containeth Me." And thou wilt take up thy life in thine
  hand, and with infinite longing cast it before the new Beloved One.

But why is the glory of this station concealed, and the unreality of self
allowed to hold sway over both our understanding and our perceptions, such
that we must battle life-long to overcome it?

Maybe, in order to know God, we must first perceive what is "not God"; that
is, acutely know the pain of His absence, until we are able to perceive even
the least hint of His presence; until, "Each and every thing, however small,
would be to him a revelation, leading him to his Beloved, the Object of his
quest", and where, "none shall contemplate anything whatsoever but that he
shall see God therein".

For example, a thirsty man perishing in the desert knows far more about water
than the fish who swims in it always. That man can perceive its life-giving
potential in a single drop -- savoring its sweetness, longing for it with all
his heart -- while the fish remains ignorant in the very heart of the sea!

God's revelation is like that sea, and to truly recognize it for its own sake
-- not only for benefits it may confer -- we must endure the dark, to
sensitive our eyes; we must endure pain, to know the sweetness of mercy; we
must feel the anguish of separation, poignant and deep, to savor the joy of
reunion.

Within the contrast between what is and what could be, between "this fleeting
world" and the joys of "immortal sovereignty", lies a mystery both awesome and
dreadful: "For the head raised up in the love of God will certainly fall by
the sword, and the life that is kindled with longing will surely be
sacrificed, and the heart which remembereth the Loved One will surely brim
with blood."

Again, if "head" and "life" are taken as references to selfhood, and "falling
by the sword" and "sacrifice" refer to what must happen in order for us to die
from self and live in God, then the brimming of our hearts with blood is a
beautiful mystery -- and one I believe is also addressed quite eloquently in
the Fire Tablet.

# THW, P68

Some of the Hidden Words address those wayward divines who, at the time of the
Manifestation, misled the generality of the people, and incited them to rise
up against and slay those Blessed Souls. A number of the Persian Hidden Words
are written in this vein, such as the one that begins "O ye seeming fair yet
inwardly foul!"

As for the bolded part, I agree with tgisfw: These misguided people have
stained themselves by their actions; but instead of realizing their
misbehavior and repenting before God, they have reached out to grasp what is
not theirs to take.

# Copper into Gold

A beauty of the Divine Writings is that they operate on many levels. A passage
does not need to be only literal, or only metaphorical: it can be both at
once. There is often harmony between divine creation and physical creation,
since both come from the same source. So, I agree with you that there are many
layers of metaphorical meaning in these passages; it also would not surprise
me to learn that they are literally true. Future scientists will let us know.

# THW, A64

Thanks for asking this. It prompted me to go back and translate the Hidden
Word for myself, to see which terms are being used in the original:

> My eternity (azaliyyat) is my excellent handiwork, make it the robe of thy
  temple (haykal). My unity (a.hadiyyat) was created for thee, make it the
  garment of thy self (nafs), that thou mayest forever (until abad) be the
  dawning place of my Qayyúm (a Naqshbandi sufi term meaning "a dignitary upon
  whom the whole order of existence depends").

This reminds me of the following statement from Bahá’u’lláh:

> The light of a good character surpasseth the light of the sun and the
  radiance thereof. Whoso attaineth unto it is accounted as a jewel among men.
  The glory and the upliftment of the world must needs depend upon it.

And also from the Seven Valleys:

> Whensoever the light of Manifestation of the King of Oneness settleth upon
  the throne of the heart and soul, His shining becometh visible in every limb
  and member. At that time the mystery of the famed tradition gleameth out of
  the darkness: "A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I answer him; and
  when I have answered him, I become the ear wherewith he heareth...." For
  thus the Master of the house hath appeared within His home, and all the
  pillars of the dwelling are ashine with His light. And the action and effect
  of the light are from the Light-Giver; so it is that all move through Him
  and arise by His will. And this is that spring whereof the near ones drink,
  as it is said: "A fount whereof the near unto God shall drink...."

Note also that within the Seven Valleys, there are three stations given
(maqámát): The first is that of limitation (ta.hdíd), but the second is unity
(taw.híd) and the third is dying from self and living eternally in God (fanáy
az nafs va baqáy billáh). Compare this with the "immortal sovereignty" you've
read in other places, and maybe it will offer some insights.

A nice thing about these passages is that you can memorize them and ponder
them for a lifetime; they are an excellent subject of meditation and
reflection. None of us can know for certain what they mean in this lifetime,
but their beauty and hope is a continual source of inspiration.

# Prayer: "Glory be to Thee, O Lord my God!"

Hi Kamal19, this is highly symbolic! It might be better to continue reading it
as you move on to other passages from the Writings, and come back to it
whenever they seem to relate. There is a lot of powerful imagery in this
prayer, some of which relates to other prayers and symbolic imagery from past
Dispensations. For example, the "stars" that "shine brightly" in "heaven" has
been used before to refer to those believers who manifest through their deeds
and character the powers latent in God's Revelation.

# How to start liking people?

> Is there some sort of trick to dealing with people that I am not aware of?
  How do you not let the problems of the world overwhelm you? How am I
  supposed to take part in the betterment of the world if I can't stand being
  around other people to help.

This is such a beautiful, sincere question. I love you for asking it. Indeed,
it is the very heart of the matter!

> The divine friends must be attracted to and enamored of each other and ever
  be ready and willing to sacrifice their own lives for each other. Should one
  soul from amongst the believers meet another, it must be as though a thirsty
  one with parched lips has reached to the fountain of the water of life, or a
  lover has met his true beloved. For one of the greatest divine wisdoms
  regarding the appearance of the holy Manifestations is this: The souls may
  come to know each other and become intimate with each other; the power of
  the love of God may make all of them the waves of one sea, the flowers of
  one rose garden, and the stars of one heaven. This is the wisdom for the
  appearance of the holy Manifestations! When the most great bestowal reveals
  itself in the hearts of the believers, the world of nature will be
  transformed, the darkness of the contingent being will vanish, and heavenly
  illumination will be obtained. Then the whole world will become the Paradise
  of Abhá, every one of the believers of God will become a blessed tree,
  producing wonderful fruits. -- ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

I believe that this mystery lies at the very core of our mystical Writings: to
find the truth of the Divine Unity, that others are not actually "other" but
rather reflections of the same Essence that animates our own being. It's about
transcending a local notion of self and becoming global; something that is not
easily done, or just a matter of understanding some concept or idea, but that
requires a deep and fundamental change in our very vision of what reality is.
And such a change demands regular study of the Writings, sacrifice, a thirst
to be transformed, and above all, Divine assistance, called upon through
constant use of prayer.

> When the disciples heard this they were greatly astonished and asked, "Who
  then can be saved?" Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is
  impossible, but with God all things are possible." -- Matthew, 19:25-26

# Thinking about becoming (converting?) Baha'i but I want to get perspectives

Hi sypnopsize. I converted at age 18, after being a strong atheist, and then
an agnostic.

I'll tell you what my mother told me: Meet the people. Spend some time around
the Bahá’ís, until you get a feeling for their character and motivations.
Also, you can always un-join, there is no permanent commitment being made
here.

It took a while before the Faith became a part of who I really was, but for
the first years I still enjoyed it a lot. I made some good friends whom I've
kept in contact with to this day (26 years later). Plus, it's a very welcoming
community no matter where in the world you go, or who you are.

Feel free to ask any other questions that come to mind.

# Thinking about becoming (converting?) Baha'i but I want to get perspectives

It's funny you should ask this, since my beloved cousin (a Christian) is
marrying another woman next month, and this has forced me to think a lot about
these issues.

On the level of spirit, everything is about love and acceptance. We should
love each other the way God loves us -- so much so that if we meet another
soul, "... it must be as though a thirsty one with parched lips has reached to
the fountain of the Water of Life, or a lover has met his true beloved"!

At the same time, God challenges mankind to evolve, and some of the things He
asks of us, for the benefit of the whole, require sacrifice from individuals.
For example, although society upholds the individual pursuit of happiness as
an ideal, and sexual expression and identity as key components of that
happiness, the Faith only allows sex within the bonds of marriage, and then
only between a man and a woman. No matter how strongly two people may feel for
one another -- whatever their gender -- the fundamental purpose of marriage is
social, and not a way of fulfilling our own hopes and dreams, as modern
society often portrays it.

This is just one of the ways we're asked to subordinate the interests of self
to a greater purpose. The belief is that the soul has a far greater destiny
than the body, and since it is without gender and physical need, these things
should not be confounded with the meaning of happiness. Only by accepting the
counsels of the Manifestation of God for each age does true civilization
emerge, and then only do we properly glimpse why human beings were made to be.

# haskell.org and the Evil Cabal

Hi everyone: Haskell.org committee member here -- although I'm not writing
this as a representative of the committee. I just wanted to share a few of my
own thoughts, since some of you might wonder what other people on the
committee think about all this.

There are, perhaps, a few exaggerations being made about what exactly the
committee does, and how we do it. I personally talk to other committee members
-- as a committee -- a few times a year. Every once in a while, we vote on a
mailing list about decisions that affect the public. That's all. The rest of
our business pretty much proceeds unattended, except when questions arise
about the legality of students who want to participate in the Summer of Code,
or financial questions about receiving donations.

I agree that mailing lists are becoming too narrow a medium; at the same time,
it's hard to find something truly representative. Some of you may know I'm
also the Emacs maintainer, and we use mailing lists there too -- and receive
many of the same complaints about inaccessibility, and too much inward-focus.
Yet there are several influential people in our community who aren't
accessible by anything but e-mail (our beloved SPJ is neither a Twitter nor a
Reddit user!), so a true medium for collaboration would need to take place on
many channels simultaneously. This sounds like an interesting technical and
social problem to solve, especially as the number of mechanisms for
communication continues to proliferate (many of my friends use apps I hadn't
even heard of until recently).

I love the Haskell language, and its excellent blending of theory and
practice, and I also enjoy nearly all the Haskellers I've met over the years,
including Michael Snoyman, a former co-worker of mine. It saddens me to see
disputes of this kind, no matter who they're from, or why. It also surprises
me to be thought of as evil, in any respect. All I can do is continue to serve
the interests of the wider Haskell community as best I can, no matter what
happens. If you all want me removed to make way for a braver new world, that's
OK too. There are always other interesting things to do.

I hope everyone will take some time to remember why we're doing this together
in the first place. We love this technology, we love its promise and
potential, we love the learning attitudes it engenders, and the way it
embraces ideas as far afield as REST APIs and the lambda calculus. I think
it's here that we can find a better path forward, rather than getting caught
up in who said what when.

# Regarding Islam's Relationship to the Bahá’í Faith in the Context of Progressive Revelation

One thing to always keep in mind is context. When Christ appeared, He said
that He came only to bring the Word of God to the Jews, not the gentiles,
although He later changed this after a gentile woman of great faith pleaded
for His help.

In other words, Christ came to address a people who had already known 3,000
years of worshiping a monotheistic God, and following the laws of God. As with
every Manifestation of God, Christ sought to advance their spiritual
understanding. He chose at that time to give them a deeper understanding of
the spiritual dimensions of worship (love, forgiveness, virtue), and not just
further expound on the Law.

Muhammad, on the other hand, came to the tribes of Arabia, who were fierce
idol-worshippers at that time, following their own traditions, and who already
had a history of slaying earlier prophets outright (see the story of Salih in
Qur'an).

So, while it is true that Christianity came 'before' Islam in the progressive
scheme, the context of these two Faiths was very different, and God chooses
the best remedy for the ills of each age.

It's a hard thing to judge God by the standards of human morality, especially
when we see only the physical world, and our understanding is bounded by time.
We have no idea what would have happened in the world if a Manifestation like
Christ had appeared among the Arabs, instead of the strength of Muhammad.
However, God does know what would have happened, "and verily, He is the best
of planners."

# The Biggest Barrier Between Me and the Faith: Islam

I can understand how dissatisfying the contextual argument must be. We
naturally want religion to be rational, easily comprehended, and defensible
before all arguments, but it has never been so. Some aspects of God's Will are
deeply shrouded in mystery, and will remain forever beyond our ken.

> How can feeble reason encompass the Qur’án,  
  Or the spider snare a phoenix in his web?  
  Wouldst thou that the mind should not entrap thee?  
  Teach it the science of the love of God!

If reason is to be the highest goal, one must abandon what is beyond reason;
but if you long for the Object of your heart's desire, love is the only
pathway to that region. The mind is a noble and trustworthy steed, but it
should not mount the rider. Look beyond the outward forms and incongruities,
and ask: is there a deeper unity within?

# Developing a very unhealthy attitude towards Islam/Muslims

As one Bahá’í to another, I'm very glad you do not simply accept your opinions
of Islam, and consider them justified based on past experiences. You clearly
want to understand and move beyond your feelings. I have other Middle Eastern
friends who feeling almost exactly the same way you do, and who have said many
of the same things to me.

I grew up a Westerner, and so my introduction and first experiences of Islam
were through Sufism. There is so much beauty there, and reveling in
contradiction! God's Will is adored because it is mysterious. It's a shame
that the beauty of Islam is lost in today's media. There is so much richness,
while certain sects have only skimmed the surface, and abused it to very harsh
ends.

I cannot deny there are things I do not understand in the Qur'an, just as
there are in the Old Testament (and in abundance). The world is not how I
would have made it. But spiritual insight does not come from comprehending
God's actions in terms we understand; we must break our minds a bit, and
tackle these problems within our hearts, so that inspiration may take the
place of limited understanding.

I'm sorry to be infuriating, but it's not enough just to tolerate Islam, or
resign it to some antiquity of history: we must become lovers of Muhammad if
we are ever to truly recognize the Ancient Beauty, Who has reappeared from age
to age, cycle after cycle. If we embrace our Friend wearing one robe, but
reject Him wearing another, what friends are we?

Anyone can love God if it were easy to do so; what glory to those who love Him
not just despite it's being hard, but because of it! In the Panj Kanz Nabil
reports Bahá’u’lláh having said:

> Dost thou know what sort of person is worthy of hearing My words and is fit
  to enter My presence? I will say it that thou shalt know. Suppose one should
  find himself in a limitless space, unbounded in every direction. To the
  right, there existeth every pomp and glory, pleasure and comfort, and
  sovereignty eternal and stainless; and to the left is prepared every
  calamity and hardship, vengeance and poverty, and vicissitude unyielding and
  perpetual. Suppose then that the Faithful Spirit should call out, from the
  precincts of the Lord of the Worlds, to that one, saying, “Shouldst thou
  choose the right—with its eternal pleasures and all that is therein—over the
  left, thou wouldst not, in the estimation of God, be abased in the least;
  and shouldst thou choose the left—with its perpetual hardships and all that
  is therein—over the right, it would not add an ounce to thy worth in the
  sight of the Almighty, the Unconstrained.” Should that one choose, at that
  moment, the left over the right—afire with ardor and zeal, and filled with
  rapture and ecstasy—then would he be fit to enter My presence and worthy of
  hearing My magnificent words.

This world, with all its confusion, is our chance to show our mettle. Be glad
that faith is not easy, because in that difficulty lies the true prize.

# Developing a very unhealthy attitude towards Islam/Muslims

That's a difficult topic to clarify within the space of a reddit comment, but
if I may attempt it: God-given trials, the inherent difficulties of this
existence, are created to a purpose. When a person has so recognized that
purpose as to embrace them, then he is truly ready to hear His Revelation. If,
on the other hand, our wish is to avoid all difficulty -- even if such a
choice were acceptable in God's sight -- we will have missed part of the
picture, and a necessary piece in understanding this great Puzzle.

# How to see the best in everyone?

I think that seeing the best in everyone, and everything, is one of the truths
to be discovered along the path of the Seven Valleys, since the Divine Unity
is at the heart of the perception needed for such an attitude. "That we may
know only Thee, and see only Thee, and think of none save Thee."

# Did Jesus die for our sins as the Bible says?

When I read the words of Christ, sometimes I hear Him speaking as the Christ
-- the Manifestation for humanity two thousand years ago -- and sometimes as
the voice of the Primal Will: the Ancient Beauty and Holy Spirit animating all
the Prophets and Messengers of God.

In this latter station, when He states, "None shall come to the Father but
through Me", it makes perfect sense. How else can humanity recognize God,
except through the Primal Will? We cannot hold direct communion with the
Infinite, so we depend on His Intermediaries to acquire knowledge of the
worlds beyond.

Likewise, when He says, in this perfect station, that He has suffered and died
for our sins, it matches up exactly with similar statements made by
Bahá'u'lláh, for example in Summons of the Lord of the Hosts:

> My body hath borne imprisonment that your souls may be released from
  bondage, and We have consented to be abased that ye may be exalted. Follow
  the Lord of glory and dominion, and not every ungodly oppressor. My body
  longeth for the cross, and Mine head awaiteth the thrust of the spear, in
  the path of the All-Merciful, that the world may be purged from its
  transgressions. Thus hath the Daystar of divine authority shone forth from
  the horizon of the Revelation of Him Who is the Possessor of all names and
  attributes.

And in the Gleanings He writes:

> The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind may
  be released from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within
  this most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may attain unto true
  liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow, that all the
  peoples of the earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with
  gladness. This is of the mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Most
  Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, O believers in the Unity of God,
  that ye may be exalted, and have suffered manifold afflictions, that ye
  might prosper and flourish. He Who hath come to build anew the whole world,
  behold, how they that have joined partners with God have forced Him to dwell
  within the most desolate of cities!

# Prayer | What Bahá’ís Believe: To live in a state of prayer entails not only
  uttering sacred verses in moments of devotion; it suggests, too, that
  throughout the day we should turn our hearts towards God.

I think the most profound communication of one's love for God lies in complete
and radiant acceptance of others, until they feel the warmth of our affection.
It doesn't need to be a communication of ideas or concepts; the unity of God
is best preached by seeing the goodness in others, independent of all earthly
differences, and acting with this awareness. The more complete such a vision
becomes, the more it evolves toward an inclusive experience of God, until
"turning one's heart toward God" no longer implies turning away from the
world, but only what would narrow the heart again.

> For on this plane the traveler witnesseth the beauty of the Friend in
  everything. Even in fire, he seeth the face of the Beloved. He beholdeth in
  illusion the secret of reality, and readeth from the attributes the riddle
  of the Essence. For he hath burnt away the veils with his sighing, and
  unwrapped the shroudings with a single glance...

For example, we might interpret "everything" as the world around us; "fire" as
those characteristics that jar and annoy; "illusion", the specious and
transitory distinctions between people; "attributes" their worldly qualities;
the "veils", a cloak of manyness obscuring the One; and "shroudings", the
common perception that my neighbor is not my own, truest self. Without God, we
live alone, islands of our own making; in Him, we are the sea.

# Heroes and virtues

Within us, each day, there is a struggle that could certainly be called
heroic. And I don't mean not eating that chocolate donut on the counter. I'm
talking about the heroism of being kind to those who annoy us, or holding to
truth, even when others look down on us for doing so.

In those moments, although we are certainly not Kyrptonian, we need to be as
strong as steel, and to pierce the veils of vain imaginings with eyes of
flame! Our spirits should be free to "fly with the utmost joy and happiness
throughout the illimitable space", until we find a new way of seeing that
leads to right behavior.

> ... those personages who in a single step have passed over the world of the
  relative and the limited, and dwelt on the fair plane of the Absolute, and
  pitched their tent in the worlds of authority and command—have burned away
  these relativities with a single spark, and blotted out these words with a
  drop of dew. And they swim in the sea of the spirit, and soar in the holy
  air of light.

# House Cleaning

Your struggle with cleanliness can become a subject of daily practice and
meditation. "Life is suffering", but the object is not the end of suffering
any more than it is an end to life. What you seek is the end of "suffering".
The sage is in fact most fully alive.

I don't think Zen should be confused with an enervating nihilism steeped in
word-play. Be refined, be perfected, because it is your joy: as a wolf howling
at the moon, or a beaver building his dam. Humans are ennobled by their
thought; a snow tiger who abandons his fur is not made any warmer. It's out of
his climate that it becomes suffocating.

# Guidance on investing in and supporting businesses

I tend to see money as a proxy for direct action: Instead of going out to farm
strawberries, I give money to someone who has farmed them on my behalf.
Likewise, when I invest in a business, I'm virtually working for that
business, doing whatever they're doing to change the world. But this is a
personal viewpoint, and I offer it only in the sense of not viewing money as
an abstract, but as fungible with action. The same principle could be applied
to deputizing others to serve as travel teachers, when you cannot.

# Praying in a language you don't understand: quotes?

Consider too that we don't know the true meaning of the texts, even in our own
language! It's like hearing words spoken by a friend: little by little they
deepen the relationship, but it would need infinite lifetimes to know the
complete depths of their soul.

Prayer is propinquity. If we are drawing closer to God, the means are blessed;
if not, no amount of understanding can replace the efficacy of God's
good-pleasure.

# Why has God created us with a purpose to grow closer to Him?

I believe that He created us out of love, since love is an attribute of His
perfection. He created each thing, and a paradise for that thing, so the
creature might enjoy the bounties of its Creator. This is not done out of any
need, but as a token of His grace, so we might know the abundant joy of
drawing near to Him.

Paradise for human beings is the knowledge of God, but knowledge is not
identical with awareness and appreciation. A wealthy man can know money in
every detail, but fail to appreciate the meaning of his wealth, unless and
until he has hungered and suffered deprivation.

Even with us Bahá’ís: we know prayer; but it's another thing to fully
appreciate the reality of prayer. Consider what the Báb wrote about prayer:

> [T]he river of milk "whose taste changeth not" ... floweth through the
  depths of prayers and supplications. It is the fresh milk and the manifest
  mystery, whose inner essence revealeth the crystal, incorruptible water, the
  outward form of which is pure milk. It is the water of the spirit of prayer,
  through which man reacheth the summit of sanctity and reposeth within the
  heaven of eternal reunion....

> By thy life! Were the people to taste the delight of that milk, they would
  assuredly be willing to rend, with their own hands, their own bodies, that
  they might be permitted to recite a single prayer. For verily, within each
  prayer vibrateth the spirit of divine Sovereignty, radiateth the mystery of
  Eternity, and shineth forth the uttermost word of Servitude before the
  Divine Justice.

All this ignorance, darkness and evil, are in fact aspects of knowledge, since
without it, we would not be driven to realize the full extent of our
powerlessness before God, and our reliance upon Him. In contemplating the
beauty of this ugliness, or the peace in this war, consider this prayer from
Bahá’u’lláh:

> Glorified, immeasurably glorified art Thou, my Best-Beloved! Inasmuch as
  Thou hast ordained that the utmost limit to which they who lift their hearts
  to Thee can rise is the confession of their powerlessness to enter the
  realms of Thy holy and transcendent unity, and that the highest station
  which they who aspire to know Thee can reach is the acknowledgment of their
  impotence to attain the retreats of Thy sublime knowledge I, therefore,
  beseech Thee, by this very powerlessness which is beloved of Thee, and which
  Thou hast decreed as the goal of them that have reached and attained Thy
  court, and by the splendors of Thy countenance that have encompassed all
  things, and by the energies of Thy Will whereby the entire creation hath
  been generated, not to deprive them that have set their hopes in Thee of the
  wonders of Thy mercy, nor to withhold from such as have sought Thee the
  treasures of Thy grace.

And again, the message of the Fire Tablet. Finally, there are these words on
coming to know God from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

> Is the king free as the bird is free to fly upward? The king's head is often
  heavy with anxiety and the things of this world which hold him down. The
  true pleasure and happiness depend upon the spiritual perception and
  enjoyment. The powers of mind are the bounties of God given to man to lead
  him toward spiritual happiness. The highest grace in man is to love God.
  Love of God, knowledge of God is the greatest, the only real happiness,
  because it is nearness to God. This is the kingdom of God. To love God is to
  know Him. To know him is to enter his kingdom, and to be near him.

If the meaning of life is predicated on knowing God, we must ask what it means
to know, and what role this dark existence plays in gaining that knowledge.

# If my credibility is being questioned, I will simply step down.

To everyone: Please do not judge Eli harshly by the contents of messages sent
to a mailing list.

English is not his first language. He is also much more interested in getting
things done than talking about how to do them. As someone who has spoken to
him directly on a few occasions, and works with him regularly, my opinion is
that Eli is exactly the sort of person you want to have in a maintainership
position: He's not quick to act, he considers issues from all angles, and he
doesn't buy into nonsense or hype.

Sometimes such a mature attitude can be frustrating to those who see a flaw
and want it resolved as immediately as possible. The language barrier -- and
the medium of text -- combine at times to make it seem like Eli is being gruff
or unsympathetic to such concerns.

However, I urge you to see past the medium to recognize the person, as I have,
and then you would be doing everything in your power to prevent him from
becoming disparaged. Eli is a big reason why Emacs continues to sail straight,
and I'd really appreciate it if everyone made the effort to see that. Help him
instead of fight with him, and we'll get far more accomplished together.

# Advice and encouragement for a Baha'i trying to return to the faith?

I think you have what is truly necessary: sincerity, openness, recognition of
your weaknesses before God. That is so valuable.

The mountain in front of you can be conquered step by step. Connect with
Bahá’u’lláh, not the form and image of what Bahá’í looks like. Hold on to that
connection even when things get weird and rocky.

Virtue doesn't exist to judge you. Think of a violin: it is always capable of
great music, but needs tuning and training to reach its purest notes. You are
that violin. Even now, however badly you may feel, the perfection is right
there with you, always a part of you. The point of virtue is not to show you
how far you have to go, it's to help you realize the infinite beauty shining
from your own heart.

Focus on the Source. Know that He loves you more than anyone can; He cares
more than is reasonable; He is merciful beyond His justice. He is a Friend
that will never give up on you, no matter what. Think of that, and not
yourself. Make it the center of your life, and naturally you'll want to
strengthen the relationship.

Outward forms are always the greatest challenge. They can be so depressing, so
defeating. God is "closer to you than your life's vein". Even if you lose
sight of it for a brief time, you have never left. The sun shines eternally,
no matter if there are clouds, no matter if the Earth has turned its back for
the night.

# I'm bored

Appreciation is truly the lost art. If you were stuck in solitary confinement
for some years, you'd revel in those boring people like drops of gold.
Everything is perspective, vision. It's one thing to see; it's another
altogether to see how you see.

# Combining Functors on Free Monads

What you're describing is called "the expression problem", and there have been
many strategies explored to manage it, such as recent work on "extensible
effects", the Freer monad, and the van Laarhoven free monad.

Another way to approach it is to use Free over a simple, core language, but a
final encoding to shallowly embed a surface language, as described in
Combining Deep and Shallow Embedding for EDSLs.

The classic paper that covers the techniques you describe above (functoral
products) is Wouter's on Datatypes à la carte. If you go deeper down this
road, there are papers exploring how functoral coproducts can be used to
express compositional interpreters.

# Progress

It's not about progressing, or not progressing. Avoiding either one misses the
point. Mastery of something requires great effort and attention, and I don't
believe for a second that fully living means stumbling through life without
applying one's self.

What you seek is no one detail, or the lack thereof. You won't find it by
seeking progress, or avoiding it, or deciding it doesn't exist, or saying it
has no meaning. All of these lead back to the same place, right where you
started.

Who ever told you you aren't the carrot?

# To those of you who converted to the Bahá'í Faith from another religion or lack thereof, WHY did you choose Bahá'í?

Hi! For myself, I followed a progression of Christian (Methodist) to strong
atheist (very anti-religious) to agnostic ("Let's be honest, I don't know") to
the Bahá’í Faith.

I was not seeking at the time, nor interested in religion. What I did love was
philosophy, and the principle that until I can disprove something, it is
worthy of consideration. When I started talking to a Bahá’í on my college
campus, and his answers kept making more and more sense, I felt compelled to
research further.

It was several months before I was comfortable saying the word "God", or
praying, or reading the Writings of the founders of the Bahá’í Faith. I was
driven by a deep sense of its truth, more than any of the outer aspects.

Of course, I also knew that after joining, I could always unjoin, so I took my
mother's advice and became a part of the religion, while always keeping an eye
out for suspect or hypocritical behavior. It took several years before I truly
"believed", rather than constantly arguing about the correctness of the Faith
in my mind.

Now it's twenty-six years later, and the world looks very different to me.
There is a door to reality that human beings are capable of opening, and
religion is uniquely suited to unlock. Those who believe life is just the
material adventures of some clever animals, have yet to scratch the surface.

Good luck with your report!

# To those of you who converted to the Bahá'í Faith from another religion or lack thereof, WHY did you choose Bahá'í?

Six years after I joined the Faith, my mother did as well. She told me that
after I moved away from home, she "missed the presence of those wonderful
people". So she began her own exploration of the Writings, and declared her
belief maybe a year after. I'd describe the rest of my family as atheists,
although while not believing in "God", I wouldn't say they fully disbelieve in
any concept of spirituality.

Religious institutions, and especially formalized conceptions of "Godhood",
have done a lot of damage to the world's understanding of religion and God.
These are things every person needs to explore for themselves, and not just be
told what they mean. If you believe in the potential of human beings, and that
there is more to life than what is obvious, then I think we have a lot in
common, no matter if we agree or disagree on the surface.

# What does Daily meditation look like to a Baha'i?

I think there are many forms of meditation, depending on whom you ask and what
their aim is. As long as the fruit of it draws one nearer to God, I hope we
explore even newer forms as society progresses.

Some meditations I've found useful are: Looking for the root of how I
experience the world. Examining my emotions. Reviewing the value of my actions
during the day. Seeking to appreciate the beauty of the word of God as I
recite it. Focusing on a person, and trying to see them in terms of their
unity, not their differences. Freely roaming, almost day-dreaming, on
spiritual themes. Among others.

# What does Daily meditation look like to a Baha'i?

Thanks for making it more specific! There are several places where I enter
into a state that feels meditative, of various qualities:

A favorite is taking a walk around my house for an hour, focusing on the
rhythm of a walking stick, reciting passages I've committed to memory. I try
to feel and savor the fragrance from those passages, so usually they're from
Hidden Words or the Seven Valleys. Mystical, positive subjects work well.
Reflecting on the bounty and love of God.

Some others: lying in my bed before I fall asleep, when thoughts drift;
driving in the car, just silence and pondering; when I'm bored, standing in a
line or waiting for someone. Sometimes it's worthwhile to intentionally switch
to the slower line or lane, challenging myself to reflect instead of feeling
hurried.

I usually don't involve physical aids, since I'm not a fan of pictures or
symbols. The best tools for me are silence and the memorized Word; also,
recalling challenges from the day that ruffled my feathers, to realize how
petty I was being.

# The Baha'i Faith and Absurdism.

Imagine someone you've known for many, many years: maybe a spouse, a friend, a
parent.

Look through the eye of the mind, and we might say: we'll never fully know
them. We don't know what they'll do tomorrow, if they'll always be loyal, if
they'll always be kind, if they'll always be the person we know today. The
mind, if it's honest, doesn't know even 0.01% of the mysteries of life.

Look through the eye of the heart, and we might say: we'll never stop loving
them. No matter what they do tomorrow, no matter if they're loyal, no matter
if they're always kind. They'll always be the soul we love today. The heart,
if pure and filled with God, revels in these mysteries like a fish from the
fathomless deeps.

Seeking certainty of mind is to drink the Ocean by cupfuls: you'll never know
the bottom of it. Certainty of heart dives straight in, praying always, "O
Lord, increase my astonishment at Thee!"

> Wherefore, if those who have come to the sea of His presence are found to
  possess none of the limited things of this perishable world, whether it be
  outer wealth or personal opinions, it mattereth not. For whatever the
  creatures have is limited by their own limits, and whatever the True One
  hath is sanctified therefrom; this utterance must be deeply pondered that
  its purport may be clear.

# Alan Watts a modern thinker talks about the games we make out of material
  life.

I've always greatly enjoyed Alan Watts -- and Krishnamurti, Ayn Rand, Sartre,
and many others who, on the face of it, say things contradictory to Bahá’í
teachings about the soul and God.

However, these contradictions are often in the realm of perception: my
understanding of what they're saying vs. my understanding of the Faith. If I
make an effort to see past those differences, there are often illuminating
threads of commonality.

One of the most profound spiritual experiences of my life came after reading
Ayn Rand's "Atlas Shrugged" -- a book that very openly rails against
spiritualism -- because it caused me to see something I hadn't before, and
freed me from how I'd been reading Bahá’u’lláh's words up to that moment.
Whatever liberates the heart from the trappings of mind is worth pondering;
whatever leads the mind to cage the heart is not.

On my nightstand right now is a book from Watts: The Wisdom of Insecurity. It
has many things to say about "self forgetting", a mystery often mentioned in
the Bahá’í Writings.

# Emojis in Emacs intentionally disabled for OSX

This decision wasn't something "I approved of", in the sense you're thinking.
I do use a Mac, and I do miss my color emojis.

GNU Emacs is a project of the Free Software Foundation, and when they deem an
issue as relating to their political agenda, it trumps the technical purview
of the project maintainer. I keep Emacs going from a software point of view;
they keep the FSF going as a movement.

If RMS says that such a change relates to freedom, I can either acquiesce or
walk away. I didn't think color emojis were important enough to walk away. The
gcc/clang dispute was part of the reason the last maintainer walked away.

It's a free project. If a group of people is willing to put in the effort, you
could fork Emacs and make it into something better, freed from the FSF's
policies. Until that happens, expecting them to change by writing blog posts,
or commenting on Reddit, is not going to have any effect whatsoever.

# Hey, out of curiosity, who here is enlightened?

It wasn't meant as a knife! but a word of hope.

Consider yourself like a fish, swimming in the heart of the ocean, searching
for water... you think haven't found it because you don't swim fast enough, or
strong enough, or like the fishes of old; or that your lazy eye, your broken
scale, your weak fin is the reason. When, in fact, nothing can hold you back!

> A fish swims in the ocean, and no matter how far it swims there is no end to
  the water. A bird flies in the sky, and no matter how far it flies there is
  no end to the air. However, the fish and the bird have never left their
  elements. -- Dogen

# Evolution

All things serve God's purpose, so it's quite possible that many of the
current theories on species development are valid. What we add is that, in the
final analysis, all things are seen to serve the greater plan of God, the
appearance of human perfections.

Viewed through the narrowing lens of time, any one thing appears quite
independent, a random movement of individual actors. But stepping back, we
believe a larger pattern emerges, one that has always, and will always,
reflect the will of God.

> If it is considered with insight, it will be seen that all the forces of the
  universe, in the last analysis serve the Covenant. -- ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

# Do you have to believe that Baha'U'llah and his son Abdul Baha are free of
  contradictions?

One thing to keep in mind: By what standard do you judge one who lays claim to
a Revelation from God?

Bahá'u'lláh revealed Laws, and decided how and when they should be applied.
And not only did these Laws not appear until after a few decades, there are
even cases when He freed some of the believers from the obligation of
following them (e.g. Jamál-i-Burújirdí).

If Bahá'u'lláh decides when, and how, and to whom these Laws apply, are we
really to weigh His testimony in the balance of how we think He did or didn't
observe them?

> Therefore, should a person arise and bring forth a myriad verses,
  discourses, epistles, and prayers, none of which have been acquired through
  learning, what conceivable excuse could justify those that reject them, and
  deprive themselves of the potency of their grace? What answer could they
  give when once their soul hath ascended and departed from its gloomy temple?
  Could they seek to justify themselves by saying: “We have clung to a certain
  tradition, and not having beheld the literal fulfilment thereof, we have
  therefore raised such cavils against the Embodiments of divine Revelation,
  and kept remote from the law of God?”

# Compati

If I may hazard a thought:

The monks were divided among themselves over a cat, just as our minds over
reality. Nansen threatened to divide the cat as well if they could not
discover a good word to save it.

Joshu knew the answer lay, neither in forcing the monks together, nor the cat
apart -- that all such approaches are absurd. The only answer is to turn the
problem inside out (or upside down), and know there are neither monks nor
cats. A sword has no power to divide what admits of no division.

Nansen fears Joshu's sword in the verse, because it would end "Nansen". Nansen
enforced the edict by showing the monks the consequence of their thinking.

# Eternal Heaven and Hell in the Quran

Unbelief is hell. As long as you cannot or will not recognize the Beloved, you
are forever deprived of what you long for most.

Imagine you're in a desert, dying of thirst. There is a pool of crystal, pure
water in front of you, but you're convinced it's poison and want nothing to do
with it. As long as you persist in your refusal, you remain in torment; the
moment you drink, it ends.

Said another way: The soul of an unbeliever can never reach heaven, because
the very essence of heaven is recognition of its Lord. This does mean the soul
cannot someday, by the grace of God, believe; only that it can never advance
in a state of unbelief.

# Isn't the Bible pretty clear that the resurrection of Jesus was physical, and not just spiritual?

I wouldn't say "nearly all Christians" as if it were a universally held
belief. Jehovah's Witnesses certainly don't think so; the Wikipedia page on
The Resurrection of Christ

gives several accounts of scholars who question whether it was a physical
event; and if you google for Christian thought on the idea of a spiritual
resurrection, you'll find others who think so too.

The clearest verses I've seen in support of a physical resurrection are those
where Christ demonstrates his wounds to the apostles (cf. John 20:27),
inviting them to even touch them. There is this article from a man who left
the Bahá’í Faith, because he thought these verses were so compelling. Yet, it
also says that a host of saints rose up from the cemetery and visited the
nearby city, being visible to many people; why is there no corroboration for
this?

Keep in mind when thinking about these things that every religion, every
religion, has been so certain about the validity of its interpretations that
it fully rejected the Faith that came after it. The Jews did this to Christ,
and still are. It's not because these Faiths are full of uneducated people who
cannot reason; they have compelling arguments behind the certitude of their
interpretations.

If someone thinks that John 20:27 is enough evidence to disprove the divine
origin of any Faith that claims otherwise, then I cannot convince them except
to argue by history: Humanity has chronically failed to interpret scripture,
and has used the "obviousness" of literal meanings to condemn and kill its
Messengers. It should be no surprise that this continues to the present day.

For a few other Bahá’í resources on this topic, there is this article by David
Friedman; and a discussion by David Young in The Resurrection of All Mankind.
Also, the Qur'án does not support the physical resurrection, so if we are to
clarify the Bahá’í position, we must consider that too.

# Three questions

First, the word mustaqarr can mean resting place, or where a thing abides. For
example, Ismailis say that the Imam is the mustaqarr (almost in the sense of
"repository", or "seat") of God's will.

What's interesting to me is that the sun does not move in relation to the
Earth, so it is always in its resting place. Similarly, the Primal Will may be
seen to go away and come again over the ages, but in truth He has always been
"from the beginning that hath no beginning, until the end that hath no end".

Second, I do not believe Bahá’u’lláh is encouraging people to eat meat, but is
saying we should not invent our own religious restrictions, beyond what God
has made unlawful -- a behavior that has plagued many past religions.

Third is a good question! Given how suddenly that topic appears within the
letter, it's as if ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is answering a specific question, in the
context of several other questions, but we are not seeing what those questions
were.

There was a discussion thread just recently on the question of Evolution and
science.

# A Man That Has Had a Dream: The Prophylactic Nature Of Zen Transmission

Perhaps saying "we are born with the ability to awaken" is stating things the
wrong way around. This makes it seem like enlightenment is some advanced state
of being, to which we all have a chance to aspire.

What if enlightenment is not something to be "achieved", but the cessation of
a certain kind of nonsense? Am I more advanced for recognizing that I hunt
after money, for no other reason than thinking money should be hunted after?
Or that I search for and prize enlightenment, without knowing what
"enlightenment" is -- since if I'm searching for it, how could I know?

                                    POSTS

# While reading /r/zen and watching TV

Huang-Po writes:

> [The Tathagata] also said, "This Dharma is absolutely without distinctions,
  neither high nor low, and its name is Bodhi."

> It is pure Mind, which is the source of everything and which, whether
  appearing as sentient beings or as Buddhas, as the rivers and mountains of
  the world which has form, as that which is formless, or as penetrating the
  whole universe absolutely without distinctions, there being no such entities
  as selfness and otherness.

> This pure Mind, the source of everything, shines forever and on all with the
  brilliance of its own perfection. But the people of the world do not awaken
  to it, regarding only that which sees, hears, feels and knows as mind.
  Blinded by their own sight, hearing, feeling and knowing, they do not
  perceive the spiritual brilliance of the source-substance. If they would
  only eliminate all conceptual thought in a flash, that source-substance
  would manifest itself like the sun ascending through the void and
  illuminating the whole universe without hindrance or bounds.

> Therefore, if you students of the Way seek to progress through seeing,
  hearing, feeling and knowing, when you are deprived of your perceptions,
  your way to Mind will be cut off and you will find nowhere to enter. Only
  realize that, though real Mind is expressed in these perceptions it neither
  forms part of them nor is separate from them.

As I was sitting here, reading /u/ewk's comments, seeing others' reactions to
them, and my own reactions, I thought: What if /u/ewk were a bot? How would
that change my feelings? How would it change what I've felt until now? If he
were -- maybe even if he weren't -- aren't I really just reacting in myself?

Then I turned to the TV, watching a program, and realized: How it different
from the light coming in through the window, moving with the trees?

Then I looked around me, and saw the contents of my life as another program --
a bit more sensorily immersive, a bit more persistent in effect -- but in many
respects quite the same. What and why is my reaction?
