---
id: 215
title: The Arno in the late sun...
date: Thu, 31 Jul 2003 12:00:00 +0000
category: Journal
---

I walk over the river Arno each day, crossing the Ponte Vecchio to make
my way into the city center.  Today it is finally cool.  I had forgotten
the feeling.

[arno.in.late.sun](arno.in.late.sun)

# untitled

The following paragraph represents a final summation of my entire trip.
I cannot overstate how much its implications have helped me.  I have
been working on it, chewing it down to this digested form, over the
course of many weeks.  Last night it finally took written form after
several attempts.  If it seems strange to phrase it in terms of freeing
myself from the world, bear in mind that once a soul is free what comes
after, for him, needs little elaboration:

If we want anything from others, we create a dependence on their
sanction in regard to that thing; for we have granted them the power to
withhold it and must work to remain in their favor.  However, there is
nothing to be desired from other people.  The qualities they possess are
derivative of the same source as our own being's value.  Once we see
that this value is all there is worth desiring, others become like
companions in a great venture -- but no longer foundations of its
meaning.  Such a foundation is not specific to any created thing, yet is
approachable through all creation.  Since the relationship of it to our
being is the soul's only interest, there is no need to contract for
secondary gains.  The soul, independently, finds its joy solely in
pursuit of this essential reality.

[i.wished.to.be.known](i.wished.to.be.known)


